December 2, 2019;Trump Stocks His Cabinet Increasingly With Business Lobbyists;
“There is the perception that lobbyists -- who are often paid a lot of money to influence government to act a certain way -- will continue to pursue that agenda while in government and give privileged access to clients who used to pay their salary,” said Delaney Marsco, legal counsel on ethics for the nonpartisan watchdog group Campaign Legal Center. “The public’s interests should always be the number one priority.”

Trump’s original cabinet had two former lobbyists: U.S. Trade Representative Robert E. Lighthizer, who represented the steel industry, and former Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats, whose former firm previously had clients including Google Inc. and Bank of America Corp. With Brouillette’s confirmation, the administration will have seven former registered lobbyists in a cabinet of 23 leaders of agencies or White House offices, or 30%, according to the Center for Responsive Politics and a review of lobbying disclosure forms.

Trump vowed during his 2016 campaign to “drain the swamp” in Washington, promising to expand the definition of lobbyist to include consultants and advisers and order appointees to refrain from lobbying the agencies where they worked for five years. But he’s come under criticism for falling short by Democrats vying to replace him the White House, who have campaigned on reforming the lobbying industry if elected.

“How sick is Trump’s revolving door?” Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders wrote in a May Facebook post, criticizing the president for putting a former coal lobbyist, Andrew Wheeler, in charge of regulating air pollution at the Environmental Protection Agency.

Read More: Trump’s Ethics Order Seen as Boost for Shadow Lobbying

Trump isn’t the only American president to have chosen lobbyists to serve as cabinet members. Former President Barack Obama had four, while his predecessor George W. Bush had two lobbyists-turned-agency-chiefs, according to the non-profit center. But an executive order issued by Obama during his first full day in office limited former lobbyists -- with some exceptions -- from going into the executive agencies that they used to try to influence, said Jeff Hauser, executive director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research’s Revolving Door Project.

An executive order issued shortly after Trump took office weakened those rules, allowing lobbyists into agencies they previously had business before as long as they recused themselves from “particular matters” they had previously lobbied on, Hauser said, adding enforcement of that rule has been questionable.

“Trump’s ethics pledge does not restrict most of the ways a former lobbyist could benefit their past and potentially future clients,” Hauser said.

Not everyone sees promoting lobbyists to lead federal agencies as detrimental for oversight of industries. For one thing, lobbyists are often familiar with the inner-workings of an agency and the policies they craft, said Stephen Brown, a former lobbyist who now consults for oil refiners, utilities and others as part of RBJ Strategies.

“I think that a lot of these guys stepping up from No. 2 to No. 1 in some respects can be an upgrade in terms of the efficacy of the agency,” Brown said. “They are not prone to wild fits of idealism. They know how to get things moved from point A to point B to point C in that agency because they have lobbied it before.”

The White House credited the former lobbyists in its cabinet with helping to achieve Trump’s goals.

“President Trump has assembled an incredible team at the White House and across the federal government who -- in spite of 93% negative news coverage -- have accomplished undeniable successes, including record job gains, economic growth, fair and reciprocal trade, criminal justice reform, energy independence, combating the opioid epidemic, lowering prescription drug prices, and restoring the Nation’s standing in the world,” said spokesman Judd Deere.

Trump Nominates Energy Department’s No. 2 to Replace Perry

To others, however, the situation raises concerns about conflicts of interest and questions about whose interests those officials are serving, especially since many return to the private sector once they leave office.

“It’s problematic because lobbyists work first to serve paying clients,” said Craig Holman, a lobbying expert at the Washington-based watchdog group Public Citizen. “They may be working more to serve their paying clients than the public interest.”

Some such as Defense Secretary Mark Esper, Lighthizer, and Chad Wolf, the Department of Homeland Security’s acting secretary, previously lobbied for companies with business before the agencies they now run.
|December 19, 2019;Amazon’s Van-Buying Spree Delivers a Gift to Auto Industry;The Amazon.com Inc. vans parked outside apartment buildings and along suburban cul de sacs aren’t just bearing gifts to online shoppers this holiday season. The e-commerce giant’s home-delivery push has been a boon to automakers, too.

Amazon has built up a fleet of 30,000 last-mile delivery trucks and vans since creating its own delivery network in 2018, and currently handles about half of its own deliveries. That’s good news for manufacturers of increasingly ubiquitous gray vans with the blue swoosh, which include Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz, Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV and Ford Motor Co.Carmakers have been coping with declining demand from consumers this year in part by boosting deliveries to commercial customers including Amazon and its delivery contractors. Sales to fleets, including rental-car companies and governments, are on pace for a record year, having already exceeded 2.6 million units through November, according to Cox Automotive.

“A lot of those vans are going to build out Amazon’s small-package delivery in metro areas,” said Evan Armstrong, president of Armstrong & Associates, a Milwaukee-based logistics research and consulting firm. “There’s going to be an opportunity because e-commerce is growing so fast, and these networks are growing as well.”Armstrong estimates that e-commerce logistics costs in the U.S. have grown 19% this year to $168 billion, about half of which is spending on transportation. Commercial vehicle sales totaled more than 734,000 through November of this year, an 8.7% increase from the same period a year ago, according to Cox.

Amazon, which long relied on the U.S. Postal Service, United Parcel Service Inc. and FedEx Corp. for shipments, has increasingly made door-to-door deliveries on its own. The Seattle-based company has outsourced much of the work to an army of independent contractors and used its bulk buying power to secure better prices on their vehicles, fuel and insurance. It now has more than 800 delivery contractors in its last-mile network employing 75,000 U.S. drivers.Earlier this week, Amazon told third-party merchants they could no longer use FedEx for holiday season ground delivery, saying the company’s performance had been slipping. Amazon won’t say how much of its deliveries it’s now handling through its own network, but the ratio will likely rise to 70% next year, according to SJ Consulting Group.Automakers are loath to break out their sales to a single customer like Amazon, but Fiat Chrysler -- which sells Ram ProMaster vans to Amazon, UPS and the USPS -- delivered more than 51,000 vans through September. That was up 25% from a year earlier and put its vans on pace for the best year since at least 2014.

Ford, which sells Transit cargo vans to Amazon, had record van sales in the third quarter, while General Motors Co.’s full-size van fleet sales were up 8.3% through October, due in large part to demand from online sellers and delivery companies.

Van deliveries at Mercedes-Benz are up 2.9% this year, after a 9.1% gain in 2018. The German automaker announced last year that Amazon had ordered 20,000 Sprinter vans built at its new plant in North Charleston, South Carolina.

Amazon also has announced plans to order 100,000 battery-powered delivery vans from Rivian Automotive Inc., an electric car-making venture it purchased a stake in earlier this year. The first of those battery-powered vans will hit the road in 2021.The rise of Amazon’s branded fleet has also been a boon for auto dealers who repair and service these vehicles. “We’re seeing a lot of increase in servicing activity due to Amazon and other retailers,” said Steve Germain, owner of a dealer group with Mercedes and Ford stores in Florida, Michigan and Ohio. “It’s important for them to get back in service as soon as possible, so it’s great business for us.”

Tax-Cut Tailwind
The tax cuts President Donald Trump signed into law in late 2017 have been another tailwind for commercial vehicle sales.

Benefits under the law, which begin to phase out in 2022, double the amount of depreciation cost companies can claim for the first year of vehicle ownership -- to as much as 100% in some cases. That makes it easier to buy the vehicles, which start at around $30,000.

While the tax reform and stepped-up competition for parcel deliveries has goosed fleet sales, it’s unclear how much longer this segment of the industry will be able to buoy the broader U.S. auto market. Dealers expect to sell fewer than 17 million new cars and trucks in 2020 after a five-year run above that threshold.

“We think that’s changing the economics of fleet ownership, not only for rental companies, but delivery and service companies,” said Charlie Chesbrough, senior economist at Cox. “A big question hanging over 2020 is, after two years of strong fleet, is there more upside potential, or have we tapped that out?”
|December 26, 2019;Abe, Kuroda Mount Pressure on Japanese Businesses to Lift Wages;Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda piled pressure on the country’s business leaders Thursday, urging them to lift wages to help boost the economy.

For the seventh straight year, Abe told a year-end gathering of business lobby Keidanren he hoped companies would boost wages during the annual shunto wage negotiations in spring.

Key Speakers At The 74th Session Of The United Nations General Assembly
Shinzo AbePhotographer: Jeenah Moon/Bloomberg
“What’s important is investing in people,” Abe said. “Since I’ve been mentioning this every year, I’ll refrain from emphasizing it too much but I have high hopes for next year.”Japan’s weak wage growth has been a hurdle to long-term price gains. Wages rose an average 2.1% -- well short of the 3% mark economists say is the minimum needed to help drive inflation toward 2% -- at the spring talks this year, according to figures released by the Japanese Trade Union Confederation.

Kuroda, speaking after Abe, weighed in saying he hoped companies’ wage and price setting stances improve and that moderate gains in both would also be advantageous for them.

He has repeatedly said that the positive cycle of wage and price growth the central bank is striving for lacks strength. The BOJ maintained its policy stance in the latest December meeting.

Abe announced this month stimulus package amounting to around 26 trillion yen ($239 billion) spread over the coming years, with fiscal measures around half that figure to aid disaster relief, protect against downside economic risks and prepare the country for what comes after the 2020 Tokyo Olympics.

“Just so you are aware, I understand wages rose 12 percent in the year Tokyo Olympics was held about half a century ago,” Abe said, referring to the 1964 games.
|December 10, 2019;New York Life Is in Talks to Buy Cigna Non-Health Insurance Unit;New York Life Insurance Co. is the leading candidate to acquire a business from Cigna Corp. that sells insurance through employers in a transaction that would be valued at as much as $6 billion.

Cigna, the health-insurance giant, is talking to other would-be bidders including MetLife Inc. and Sun Life Financial Inc., according to people familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified discussing private negotiations. The Cigna business markets insurance products such as life, accident and disability-income policies.nsurers have been striking deals for units that sell insurance through employers. Lincoln National Corp. bought a group-benefits business from Liberty Mutual Holding Co. in 2018 for $3.3 billion. Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. acquired an Aetna Inc. life and disability business in 2017.

The businesses are attractive to insurers seeking to diversify. The units are less capital-intensive, don’t rely as much on investment income and provide cash flow, Evercore ISI analysts said in an August note after initial reports that Cigna was looking to sell the business.

Cigna, based in Bloomfield, Connecticut, has been working to trim debt after last year’s acquisition of pharmacy-benefits manager Express Scripts Holding Co. for $54 billion. The company’s debt load swelled to more than $40 billion after the deal. Cigna’s also locked in a legal battle with Anthem Inc. after a planned combination of the two companies was derailed by antitrust concerns.

A spokeswoman for New York Life declined to comment, while a Cigna spokeswoman said the company doesn’t comment on rumor and speculation.
|December 8, 2019;Philippine Business District Halts New Online Casino Permits;Makati City has declared a moratorium on new online casinos in the Philippines’ main business district, citing an “overheating” leasing market and rising criminality.

The city will no longer accept new applications for online casinos known as Philippine offshore gaming operators, or POGOs, and will crack down against illegal activities related to the industry, Makati City Mayor Abby Binay said in a statement.Thousands of foreign workers employed by POGOs have increased the demand for homes and work stations for rent. “This puts the local property sector at risk of overheating, where its growth becomes unsustainable,” Binay said.

Makati, home to as many as 300 POGOs that mainly employ Chinese nationals, has been earning more than 200 million pesos a year in local business taxes from the industry, she said.
|December 11, 2019,;Roku Built the Dominant Streaming Box. Now It’s Under Siege;More than 30 million people use a Roku device to navigate the constellation of streaming TV services. The company’s portfolio includes the “stick” ($49.99), which resembles a USB drive; the “puck” ($79.99), a black square with smooth edges and minimal detailing; and a $400 smart TV with Roku Inc.’s operating system. The more expensive options offer better image quality and such features as extra digital storage space.

As the era of cable and satellite TV dims, Chief Executive Officer Anthony Wood says Roku is poised to keep capitalizing on the boom in streaming video. It’s an independent player that can work well with all the entrants, he says, including new services from Disney and Apple and forthcoming ones from AT&T and Comcast. “It’s satisfying to see the world be all in on streaming,” says Wood. “That’s nothing but excellent for Roku.” Many investors on Wall Street agree: The company’s stock is up more than 300% this year, and Roku is valued at over $17 billion.Having built the dominant box, Roku is under siege from companies that recognize the value of its business model. Google sells a competing smart TV operating system. Samsung sells more than a dozen smart TVs that don’t use Roku’s operating system. Comcast Corp. is giving its internet subscribers a free streaming box. AT&T Inc. is offering a box for its customers. Apple Inc. is investing billions in streaming shows designed in part to strengthen the appeal of its hardware. But Roku’s biggest challenger is Amazon.com Inc., which is vying for tie-in deals for its Fire TV with smart TV manufacturers and battling for supremacy in international markets. In September it announced a major expansion in Europe, where Roku is less dominant.Escalating competition, along with uncertain future growth, has raised investor concern. In early December, Roku shares fell as much as 17% after a Morgan Stanley analyst suggested the stock was overpriced because of “exuberance over all things streaming” and warned that its revenue and profit growth may “slow meaningfully” in 2020. Other analysts challenged that assessment.

For now, Roku enjoys a sizable lead in the U.S., at least in part because it had a head start. Wood founded Roku in 2002; several years later he joined Netflix Inc. to help build its first piece of streaming hardware. In 2007 the product was ready. But at the last minute, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings decided that for his streaming service to succeed, it needed to be on every device, not just Netflix’s. That winter, Hastings spun off the streaming technology to Roku and invested $8 million in Wood’s company.

Over the next decade, Roku forged partnerships with nascent streaming services and cemented its position atop the emerging landscape of home entertainment. Last year the company generated $742.5 million in revenue, up from $513 million in 2017. In the latest quarter, Roku devices accounted for 44% of all connected-TV viewing hours, while Amazon’s Fire TV was second with 20%, according to industry analytics firm Conviva Inc.

Even so, Roku still loses money. The company makes almost no profit from selling devices. It keeps prices low to attract users, whose viewing habits it sells to advertisers. That’s where the real growth potential is: According toEMarketer Inc., ad spending on connected TVs—in-stream ads or ads on menus—will grow to almost $7 billion by the end of 2019, up about 38% over the past year, and is expected to top $10 billion by 2021.

Nearly every inch of real estate on Roku is for rent. For $1 million, a streaming service can take over the home screen to advertise a show. When Hulu got the rights to stream Seinfeld, it paid Roku to transform a portion of the screen into an image of Jerry’s apartment instead of the default purple backdrop. Hulu, Netflix, Showtime, and YouTube have paid Roku to build brand-specific buttons on its remote controls; these lead users straight to those services. At $1 per customer for each button, the cost can quickly add up to millions of dollars in monthly fees.

Roku’s large base of cord cutters gives it leverage over any media company that wants to woo subscribers. Historically, cable- and satellite-TV distributors have paid media companies to carry their networks and received, in return, a slice of their advertising inventory. Roku doesn’t pay anything to the channels it distributes, yet it still takes a share of their ad revenue.

Roku also signs short-term deals with streaming networks, enabling it to renegotiate (read: ask for more money) quickly. Just months after signing a new contract, Roku executives will threaten to cancel a channel if its owner doesn’t give Roku a larger cut of ad sales, say several people familiar with negotiations who asked to remain anonymous to avoid upsetting their relationships with the company. In 2016, Roku told executives at Vevo LLC that if it didn’t share its ad revenue, it couldn’t be on Roku, according to Variety. Eventually, Roku relented; most services don’t have Vevo’s scale. “Distribution agreements expire, and if one isn’t in place then a channel could come out of the Channel Store,” the company said in a statement. “As our scale grows, so does our ability to help channels reach an audience and monetize, so of course we want to be properly compensated.”

Wood says there’s enough advertising dollars shifting from TV to online video for everyone to share in the riches. Roku now has a slice of the ad inventory of the vast majority of streaming services and commands some of the highest rates in the media industry, bringing in about $30 per 1,000 viewers. The company can justify higher rates in part because its software is embedded in one-third of all smart TVs sold in the U.S. When a smart TV runs on its software, Roku is the first thing a consumer sees when she turns on the TV.

Two years ago, Roku introduced its own network, the Roku Channel, which offers old movies and TV reruns. It’s free and supported by commercials, giving Roku even more ad inventory. The company also operates a digital store that lets customers sign up for ad-free services such as Netflix; each time Roku facilitates a sale, it takes a cut.

To lure Roku’s customers, its rivals will continue to test out a variety of tactics, including lower prices (Google), aggressive retail promotion (Amazon), and a less cluttered user experience (Apple). For its part, Roku will keep building on its advantage with TV manufacturers and positioning itself as the easiest brand to use.

Meanwhile, Roku’s ad revenue is expected to top $600 million this year and could reach $1.5 billion by 2022, says RBC Capital Markets analyst Mark Mahaney. Sam Bloom, the head of advertising firm Camelot, whose clients include Nordstrom Inc. and Whole Foods Market Inc., says: “When we went out to Roku, my eyes were opened. I was shocked by how large the footprint is there.”
|December 3, 2019;Hong Kong Business Outlook Extends Slump on Protests, Trade;Hong Kong’s business outlook worsened further in November with the city mired in recession amid ongoing protests and a volatile macroeconomic picture.The purchasing manager’s index for the whole economy fell to 38.5 for the lowest reading since April 2003, down from 39.3 a month ago, according to IHS Markit, which surveyed about 400 private sector companies. The gauge has now been below the 50 level that divides expansion and contraction since April 2018.“November PMI data indicated that Hong Kong’s private sector suffered its worst downturn since the 2003 SARS crisis, with the latest survey indicators painting a picture of gloom,” wrote Bernard Aw, principal economist at IHS Markit, in the report. The combined PMI readings for October and November put the economy on track to contract more than 5% in the fourth quarter barring a significant rebound in December, he said.

Economic momentum in the city has quickly evaporated under pressure from almost six months of ongoing protests. The U.S.-China trade war has also put a damper on global trade, with Hong Kong’s status as an important goods port leaving it vulnerable to the hostilities.

Retailers have been among the hardest hit industries during the months of unrest in Hong Kong. Data Monday showed retail sales by value suffered a record contraction in October as Mainland Chinese tourists avoided the city during the Golden Week traveling season. Visitor arrivals from China to Hong Kong plunged the most on record.

Financial Secretary Paul Chan on Monday forecast the city’s first budget deficit since the early 2000s, while Chief Executive Carrie Lam pledged on Tuesday that there would be additional relief measures to prop up the city’s flagging economy, without providing details.
|December 7, 2019;U.S. Business Plagued by Trade Confusion as New Tariffs Loom;As U.S.-China trade talks undergo more advances and setbacks than a ping-pong match, South Carolina businessman John Ling is increasingly pessimistic that any meaningful trade deal will be reached under President Donald Trump.“I’m becoming very doubtful there will be any deal that would solve the current problem,” said Ling, a consultant for Chinese companies doing business in the U.S.The past week has cast the outlook for a trade deal between the U.S. and China into deeper confusion. Trump rattled markets on Tuesday by suggesting a phase-one trade deal may have to wait until after the 2020 elections. Then, two days later, the president said the talks are “moving right along” and people familiar with the negotiations told Bloomberg News the sides are close to agreeing on a pact.

On Friday, White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow said a deal is coming down to the final stages but he acknowledged “delicate” proposals like Chinese farm purchases are still being discussed. Meanwhile, the Trump administration is leaving open the prospect of slapping tariffs on another $160 billion of Chinese goods in just over a week on Dec. 15 if nothing changes.

Trump Downplays China Deal Urgency as Trade Risks Roar

Trump has a history of indulging in brinkmanship to dial up the pressure in trade negotiations, especially as deadlines approach. In September, Trump said he wouldn’t be satisfied by a partial deal with China -- only weeks before he and President Xi Jinping announced the outlines of the stage-one trade deal.

Even if that’s his strategy to win concessions, it’s doing little to help companies that import from China who say they can’t plan for next year when they don’t know what’s coming next week or month. Importers in the U.S. pay the duties when the products enter the country -- often passing the cost onto consumers -- even though Trump insists the tariffs are paid by China.

“I’m very frustrated, absolutely,” Curt Christian, a Nashville, Tennessee-based furniture importer, said Thursday after days of back-and-forth headlines and seesawing markets. “I don’t know how to plan. That’s the issue.”

Christian already lost a furniture business in the early 2000s, when a wave of cheap Chinese imports decimated much of the U.S. wood furniture industry. He eventually picked himself up and created a new company, Function First Furniture, that supplies furniture to university dormitories and student housing developers. His revenue is in the tens of millions of dollars.

In Forever Trade War, U.S. Companies Take Cover as Best They Can

What burns him is that he supports the Trump administration’s intentions to level the playing field with China, Christian said. However, he needs more time to cope with the fallout from tariffs. While he imports some furniture from Vietnam and Malaysia, 70% still comes from China.

“Give me time to move, because I can’t just take $35 million worth of product and move it overnight,” he said. “You can’t just turn a battleship.”

Other companies give similar testimonies of being unable to shift investment plans or factories when they don’t know how long the trade war will last.

New York-based Delta Children’s Products imports cribs from China and elsewhere in Asia and has seen those sales fall since the tariffs took effect, said President Joe Shamie. But so too have sales of its U.S.-made mattresses, he said.

He would consider moving more production out of China if he knew what to expect. Instead, he’s afraid to act because a deal to slash tariffs could come at any time. “Imagine you’re about to buy a house, and there’s a rumor the house might be half-price tomorrow. How do you know what to do?”

Trade Woes Push IMF Global Growth Outlook to Decade-Low of 3%

Jay Foreman, who heads a Boca Raton, Florida-based toy company, likes to joke that he’s about 25 miles from Trump’s Mar-a-Lago resort and he’d love to discuss trade with the president over lunch. For now, he’s watching the news about the trade war, including Trump’s tweets, “like it’s my blood pressure and my cholesterol.”

Foreman’s company, Basic Fun!, makes some of America’s most iconic toys under license, including Lincoln Logs and Tonka trucks, and relies on China for 90% of its production. For now, all of his Christmas season merchandise is already in the U.S. tariff, but he’s fretting over the 15% tariffs that may go into effect this month for merchandise crossing the ocean. He expects to have to eventually bump up the price of all his products at least 15%, if not more.

“Imagine you have 180 employees and 100 containers that are due to arrive any day for the next three weeks, and dozens and dozens the rest of the year -- and we don’t know if it’s going to cost us 15%, 20%, 25%, because this administration is so unpredictable,” Foreman said on Friday.
|December 8, 2019;Tesco Considers Sale of Asian Supermarkets in Pivot to U.K.;Britain’s biggest supermarket chain, Tesco Plc, is considering the sale of its operations in Thailand and Malaysia as it refocuses on the domestic business amid mounting challenges in the U.K.The company is carrying out a strategic review of the businesses after receiving what it called inbound interest, according to a statement. The shares rose as much as 5.9% on Monday in London and have climbed almost 30% this year.

A sale could value the operations at 6.5 billion to 7.2 billion pounds ($8.6 billion to $9.5 billion), Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Bruno Monteyne said in a note. The Thai operation is a “great quality business,” and is undervalued as part of a larger group, Monteyne said.

“That in itself provides ample justification to consider a disposal, especially if there is unsolicited interest,” he said.

Tesco spokesman Simon Rew declined to comment on the valuation.

While a sale would mean losing the fastest-growing part of its operations, Tesco would get an infusion of cash to continue restructuring its core U.K. business that has cut thousands of jobs and shifted to new formats including checkout-free stores. It would also allow the British retailer to exit a competitive Asian region that has stymied European peers like Carrefour SA.
Tesco Thailand is the biggest hypermarket chain in the country and operates 1,967 stores in total, while the Malaysian business has 74 shops. The Thai business alone could be valued at almost $7 billion because it includes real estate assets, Dow Jones reported. In the first half of fiscal-year 2020, the retailer’s entire Asia business produced 2.6 billion pounds of revenue, accounting for about 8% of total sales.

While still dominant in Thailand, Tesco is grappling with challenges like chronically weak consumption trends, an increasingly stringent regulatory environment, and “formidable, well-connected competition,” said Maria Lapiz, Bangkok-based head of research at Maybank Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl.

“There is no longer-term growth here, and Tesco may want to rationalize its business and raise funding in the process as well,” she said.

Tesco has streamlined its domestic operations under outgoing Chief Executive Officer Dave Lewis, including pulling back from some international markets. The company is also considering a sale of its struggling Polish operations, people familiar with the situation said in September.

Ken Murphy, who is set to succeed Lewis, will have to wrestle with a growing U.K. retail crisis exacerbated by Brexit, the shift to online shopping and competition from discounters Lidl and Aldi.

Possible Suitors
The U.K. company is likely to see acquisition interest from regional conglomerates who’ve had success combining local operations know-how with the cache of international brands. In Malaysia, Japanese retail giant Aeon Co. acquired Carrefour’s operations in 2012 for $276 million. A spokeswoman for Aeon declined to comment on Tesco’s business.

Thai conglomerates like Central Group and the Singha Corp. are potential buyers who might be drawn to Tesco’s large retail network in the country, Lapiz said. Neither company responded to requests for comment.

The review is at an early stage and no decisions concerning the Thailand or Malaysia operations have been made, Tesco said, adding that the process could end with no transaction taking place.

Sime Darby, a Malaysian conglomerate, holds a 30% stake in Tesco Malaysia. When asked about Tesco’s possible exit from the country, Sime Darby said in a statement Monday that it’s continually assessing strategic options to divest non-core assets and focus on industrial and motor businesses.

If a deal were to happen, Sime Darby could receive a windfall of about 1.3 billion ringgit ($282 million), based on Tesco Malaysia’s enterprise value of $2 billion, according to Ahmad Maghfur Usman, an analyst with Nomura Global Markets Research.
|December 11, 2019;Nestle Sells Haagen-Dazs Unit to PAI Venture for $4 Billion;Nestle SA is selling its U.S. ice cream business that includes brands like Haagen-Dazs and Drumstick to a joint venture with private equity firm PAI Partners for $4 billion.

The venture, Froneri, was created in 2016 when the Swiss company merged its European ice cream business with PAI-owned R&R. Now it’s expanding to create a stronger challenger to Unilever, the global leader in ice cream with the Ben & Jerry’s and Magnum brands.The move comes as Nestle Chief Executive Officer Mark Schneider divests slower-growing businesses like its U.S. confectionery operations while focusing on pet food, water and coffee for growth. The shares were little changed early Thursday in Zurich trading.

“Nestle has been up against Unilever for years,” said Duncan Fox, an analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence. “Having complete focus on ice cream makes it more likely for the merged brands to compete against Unilever’s global scale.”

Competition in the U.S. ice-cream market has intensified, as upstarts like Halo Top that offer healthier options eat away at bigger players’ market share. Unilever has responded with postmodern flavors like Turmeric Chai & Cinnamon or Matcha & Fudge.

The U.S. ice cream business being divested had sales of $1.8 billion in 2018, while Froneri had revenue of 2.9 billion Swiss francs ($2.9 billion), Nestle said. The deal will give Froneri a 10% global market share, compared with Unilever’s 18%, according to Bloomberg Intelligence, citing Euromonitor data.

Appetite for Deals
“We see the move as a further step in a managed exit, with a potential eventual endgame of an outright sale of the JV assets to PAI,” Martin Deboo, an analyst at Jefferies, wrote in a note.

Schneider signaled an appetite for deals at Nestle’s most recent financial update in October, after the $10 billion sale of a dermatology unit earlier this year. The company has said it aims to complete a review of its ailing European processed-meat brand Herta by the end of the year, and is said to be considering a sale of its two ailing Chinese units Hsu Fu Chi and Yinlu.

The ice cream deal also follows Nestle’s decision to cut some 4,000 jobs linked to the direct delivery system of frozen pizza and ice cream to stores, and instead transition to a warehouse model to lower costs.

Nestle is “convinced that Froneri’s successful business model can be extended to the U.S. market,” Schneider said in a statement, confirming an earlier Bloomberg report.

The venture is gaining market share, Nestle said. The Swiss company sells Haagen-Dazs in the U.S. while General Mills Inc. makes it for Europe and other markets.

Unilever’s Commitment
Even as Nestle backs away from ice cream, Unilever says it’s sticking to it. The company said in October that growth over the summer was held back by sluggish performance for the category in Europe, after hot weather a year earlier boosted sales.

“Ice cream is absolutely something we are super committed to,” Hanneke Faber, the Anglo-Dutch company’s president of foods and refreshment, said this month in opening a food innovation center in the Netherlands.
|December 7, 2019;Leave Pete Buttigieg’s McKinsey NDA Alone;News organizations this week declared that the electorate needs to know exactly what Mayor Pete Buttigieg did, and for whom, a decade ago during his stint at the consulting firm McKinsey & Company. The Democratic presidential candidate has asked McKinsey to release him from the terms of his non-disclosure agreement so that he can answer their questions.

Here’s hoping McKinsey stands up to the pressure.The issue arose after the New York Times published an article about work the consulting firm did for Immigration and Customs Enforcement. (McKinsey has flatly denied the major allegations made in the piece.) The newspaper followed up with an editorial demanding that Buttigieg tell voters the identities of his clients and the nature of the work he did for them. Others piled on. The Huffington Post, for example, accused the candidate of “dodging questions.” 

Buttigieg, who has insisted he has no regrets about his time at McKinsey, has lately become a critic of his former employer, calling its work with immigration authorities “disgusting.” The Los Angeles Times calls the contretemps a “collision of the growing use of nondisclosure agreements in the private sector with the public’s expectation of transparency from candidates seeking higher office.”

But there was no collision until the news media chose to create one. Non-disclosure agreements are neither evil nor new. They’re a tool of long standing to enable one party to share its secrets with another, confident that the second party will keep those secrets confidential. Without such agreements, the provision of professional services would become effectively impossible, because clients would never be sure their secrets would be kept — including, in many cases, the secret of the fact that they hired a lawyer or consultant at all. That some secrets hidden by a particular non-disclosure agreement are of interest to others can’t be relevant to whether to undo it; the agreement exists precisely because the information it protects has value.

When I teach contract law to first-year law students, here's how I explain non-disclosure agreements: Suppose that you sue me, claiming to have been wrongfully terminated. I offer you a choice. I will pay you either (1) $50,000 to drop the lawsuit with no strings attached or (2) $100,000 to drop the lawsuit and promise not to disclose any of the underlying facts to anyone. The structure of the second offer means that I value your silence at more than $50,000. If you value your right to speak out about the underlying facts at less than $50,000, you will accept that offer. If you place a higher value on your right to speak out, you will demand more. If we wind up making a deal, at whatever price, it means that you believe you’re better off selling your right to speak out than keeping it.

Why on earth should that decision be anyone else’s business? The agreement isn't enforceable unless you've been paid, and you entered into the agreement with your eyes wide open. If we regulate nondisclosure agreements — for example, by following the lead of several states that now allow judges in certain circumstances to order them unlocked — then we reduce the value of the agreements to both the parties paying the money and the parties receiving it. Thus the next time around, the party desiring to protect its secrets will pay less, as it must take into account the possibility that the secrets won’t stay secret.

Of course, we can all imagine circumstances in which one party is coerced or deceived into signing the agreement, but those can be dealt with according to the usual rules regarding coercion or deception in the contracting process.

In any event, it’s hard to see how any of the usual critiques of NDAs apply to Pete Buttigieg. He wasn’t settling a complaint. Certainly nobody claims that he was coerced. He was simply getting paid for professional services.

Newspapers can argue that the public interest demands that the non-disclosure agreement be set aside. But courts have repeatedly rejected this argument. That would be a good rule for politics too.

The fact that people would like to know what secrets Buttigieg has promised to keep for McKinsey doesn’t place any obligation on McKinsey at all. McKinsey & Company is the sort of place that will always attract ambitious young people planning to move on to the next big thing. It's hard to see how the fact that having worked there is now causing one of them difficulties in a campaign for public office places any obligation on McKinsey.

Yet, weirdly, the news media seem to consider the whole thing McKinsey’s fault. Here’s the Times again: “The most straightforward solution is for McKinsey to release him from his vows of silence — or at least to substitute a significantly more permissive agreement.”

No, that solution isn’t straightforward. We might pardonably call it ridiculous. Why should McKinsey bear the loss? McKinsey’s clients — not Pete Buttigieg — are the ones the agreement protects. Confidentiality is the principle on which much of the world of professional services is built. Consulting firms, law firms, public relations firms, just about everybody who regularly does business with major companies requires employees to sign non-disclosure agreements. Many of these service companies, as part of their orientation, instruct new hires never to tell anybody who their clients are. Part of the security one gets in return for the fees paid to a law or consulting or public relations firm is the assurance that your secrets will stay secret.

If due to news media pressure this longstanding arrangement is cast aside, future clients of law firms or consulting firms will know that there’s a new risk in engaging the firm — to wit, that secrets seen as politically juicy will no longer stay secret. Due to this risk, future clients will pay less for the firm’s services. This development in turn will lead to lower compensation for employees. That’s a fairly hefty cost to place on tens of thousands of bystanders so that the news media can satisfy its hunger for information about a single political candidate.

Happily, there’s another way out. The candidate has raised a lot of money; the media organizations eager to make a feeding frenzy of whatever might emerge are (mostly) profitable. Rather than demand that McKinsey give it away for free, Buttigieg or the news media or some combination thereof should purchase McKinsey’s rights to enforce the contract. 

This is the simplest, fairest, and most efficient answer — and the negotiation process itself would yield important information. Because if the would-be purchasers can’t find a price at which McKinsey will sell the secrets the agreement protects, we’ll know that the news media and the activists value them less than the company does.

In which case they should stay secret.
|December 20, 2019;Boeing’s Push to Make Training Profitable May Have Left 737 Max Pilots Unprepared;On an overcast Friday in January 2016, thousands of employees gathered outside the 737 jetliner factory in a Seattle suburb for the first flight of the Max, the newest version of Boeing Co.’s 50-year-old workhorse. Thousands more watched a live feed at their desks. Two of Boeing’s ace test pilots sat at the controls, one an ex-U.S. Air Force fighter jock, the other a Navy veteran who’d also flown experimental planes for NASA. As the pilots fired up the first engine, the hulking plane rolled forward several feet—they’d forgotten to set the parking brake.

Inside the fraternity of Boeing pilots, it was an eyebrow-raising moment that later, after the uneventful flight landed to cheers, led to some teasing of the crack duo, Ed Wilson and Craig Bomben, for missing one of the steps in the preflight checklist.More than an ironic footnote in the Max saga, the incident is a window into the prideful culture that led to two crashes and 346 deaths, a worldwide grounding of Boeing’s marquee jet, and unprecedented scrutiny of the storied planemaker’s processes. Aviation authorities have weighed in on how Boeing engineers failed to anticipate pilots’ reactions to a cacophony of alerts from misfiring flight control software, how managers pressured engineers to speed the completion of their designs, and how an acquiescent Federal Aviation Administration missed the deadly risk from software changes made late in testing.

But the most fundamental breakdown at Boeing may have been a lack of appreciation of how humans respond under stress—both in the machine it was designing and in its own organization. On aircraft like the Boeing 777, a cadre of pilots had worked closely with engineers to solve problems. By the time the Max entered development, Boeing was pushing hard to turn the unglamorous but all-important business of customer training into a profit center of its own. Many pilots were distracted by a dispute with Boeing over the hiring of outside contractors. They contended the quality of training was slipping.In 2013, a year after a vote that more than doubled the number of unionized pilots, the company announced that it was moving its Seattle-area flight simulators to Miami. There and in cities such as Singapore and London, amid an historic wave of orders, it relied on hired help known as “purchased service pilots,” or PSPs. Boeing’s longtime trainers had another abbreviation for them: DBCs, or “dirtbag contractors.”

In practice, according to interviews with more than a dozen pilots and engineers who participated in the Max’s development, the turmoil left the aircraft’s cockpit designers with a lack of input from the instructors who regularly saw how the typical airline pilot responded to unusual situations. Even among the pilots, there were communications breakdowns, partly caused by disagreements over unionization. At times conversations were civil but terse.

Boeing’s fight with the pilots came at the same time as layoffs among the engineers and was part of a drive, these people say, to lessen the clout of Seattle-area unions. Company reassignments placed thousands of miles between designers honing flight-deck concepts in Seattle, trainers working with airline pilots in Miami, and a team in California that provides day-to-day support of airplanes in the field. “The driving factor was monetary,” says Mike Coker, Boeing’s former chief training pilot. “Those relationships between the various professional organizations that for decades resulted in a good product, an improved product—they weren’t taken into consideration as much as the bottom line.”

In an email, a Boeing spokesman said that “training requirements are mandated by global regulators and implemented by airline customers. Boeing continues to invest in dedicated capability and resources to assist our customers in training.” He added that Boeing has 41 full flight simulators in nine locations across four continents.

Three former senior Boeing executives, however, say privately that they regret the profit-driven imperatives imposed on the training process and see it as critical to understanding how a company renowned for meticulous engineering missed the mark so badly with the Max. For century-old Boeing, whose name is nearly synonymous with flight, the crisis isn’t only a human tragedy but a deep embarrassment and a financial disaster costing billions of dollars. And it’s made Chief Executive Officer Dennis Muilenburg, who’s taken heat from congressional leaders and crash victims’ families in tense hearings, the technocratic face of a deadly corporate blunder.The financial pressure is only mounting after the FAA pushed back on the timeline to get the Max back in the air, prompting Boeing to announce on Dec. 16 that it will suspend production of its biggest cash generator starting in January. The company already has almost 400 newly built aircraft languishing in storage because of a global flying ban that began nine months ago. “This pause may indicate that the reentry into service of the 737 Max is not just around the corner, as bullish investors may have been anticipating,” Ron Epstein, an analyst at Bank of America Corp., wrote in a note to clients.

It wasn’t supposed to happen this way. In late 2010, Airbus SE surprised Boeing by offering airlines an update of the 737’s chief competitor, the A320. The new version would have more powerful engines to save on fuel but few other changes, allowing customers to keep down the costs of training pilots to fly it. Boeing responded by announcing a similar plan to modernize the 737, a plane designed in the 1960s that had already been updated twice.

After a design meeting, Pete Parsons, an executive in the commercial airplanes unit with a mouthful of a title (director of program management best practices and program management functional excellence), declared the plans “the best I’ve seen.” He told Boeing’s internal newsletter that he was especially impressed with the “clear communications” and “high level of collaboration.” As Jim Albaugh, then Boeing’s chief of commercial airplanes, laid out the marching orders for the Max in the December 2011 newsletter: “We’re going to make this the simplest re-engine possible. We’re only going to touch the part of the airplane impacted by the engine and a couple of other improvements.”

The industry was in the midst of the greatest boom of the jet age, as the combination of millions of newly mobile middle-class travelers in Asia and low interest rates prompted airlines to order planes at a frantic pace. In the past decade, carriers have taken delivery of single-aisle jets worth $442.2 billion—36% of all such planes manufactured in the previous half-century, according to the aerospace consulting firm Teal Group. It stretched their ability to train and recruit pilots.Boeing had long prided itself on the quality of its training, dating to the College of Jet Knowledge it established during the development of the first successful commercial jet transport, the 707 in the 1950s. That plane was put through its paces by the most famous of Boeing’s test pilots, Alvin “Tex” Johnston, who wore specially made boots for each new model and gleefully courted risk. In 1955 he stunned Boeing executives by executing a barrel roll in a 707 prototype over a crowd of onlookers at a Seattle festival.

Decades later, the Boeing pilots are a tamer bunch, though some are said to still be members of the Quiet Birdmen, an aviators’ club dating to World War I. They’re also more specialized. In addition to the Boeing pilots who test new models, there are others who train airline crews or write manuals.

But the company has been trying for years to capture more of the commercial pilot training market, forming a joint venture with a Warren Buffett-owned company in 1997 that ended in 2002 and, in 2003, creating a subsidiary known as Alteon, renamed Boeing Training & Flight Services in 2009. The moves prompted instructor pilots to form a union they called the Lazy B Pilots Association, rankling management and some of the test pilots, who weren’t unionized.The training unit introduced a points-based system for its airline customers akin to the airlines’ frequent-flyer programs. Instead of providing expensive simulator time—which can cost hundreds of dollars per hour—for a set number of crews as it previously had, Boeing offered points that could be used for a combination of training for pilots, maintenance technicians, or flight attendants. “It’s like swapping fries for boiled potatoes,” Alteon’s chief, Sherry Carbary, told the trade publication FlightGlobal in 2007.

Carbary, now president of Boeing China, warned of a training reckoning for the industry amid the wave of new pilots and said it demanded a single-minded response. “We must, as an industry, find a way to lower the costs,” she said at a convention in Orlando in 2007.

The effort didn’t sit well with some of Boeing’s instructors. “We felt like shortcuts were being taken and that the quality of training was being sacrificed,” says Charlie Clayton, a former Boeing instructor. The airlines, too, had “a vested interest in getting pilots out and flying as quickly as they can, as cheaply as they can.”

Tensions boiled over with a plan to use contractors, often retired airline pilots, to fly with crews for initial training. In 2012 the trainers and manual writers voted 4 to 1 to join Boeing’s engineers’ union, the Society of Professional Engineering Employees in Aerospace. Managers made it known that the vote wouldn’t help their chances at promotion, four former workers say. The next year, in the middle of negotiations for a new contract for several dozen pilots, managers delivered a bombshell: They were moving the simulators to Miami, where Boeing had a training center that had been part of the by-then-shuttered joint venture with the Buffett company. Boeing said it was what customers wanted.

As the Max was in development, Boeing squeezed the union in other ways, too, shipping more than 3,900 jobs out of the Seattle area. Among the first to leave Boeing as job insecurity grew were experts in so-called human factors, scientists and psychologists steeped in research of how people interact with machines. Without their input, says Rick Ludtke, a former cockpit designer, “it was easier for the program leaders to drive their wishes into the design teams. They just didn’t have people who understood that you need to say no.”The beefed-up Miami center wasn’t popular with all customers, says Coker, the former chief training pilot. Some objected to instruction from contractors instead of full-fledged Boeing pilots. Other former instructors say the Miami building was shopworn.

But there was a more worrisome consequence: The move disrupted the informal relationships among engineers and trainers in the Seattle area who could easily convene at one of the simulators to talk over designs. (Another type of simulator known as an E-cab did remain in Seattle, employees say, but it was harder to schedule because of the increased demand for it.) “When the simulators were downstairs, there was an extreme amount of crosstalk,” Coker says. “We could do a walk-through or a rehearsal of a proposed procedure and see where the flaws were—much harder when you have to go to Miami or tell somebody over the phone.”

It was from a hotel room in Miami that former Boeing pilot Mark Forkner—one of the manual-writing pilots—sent frustrated instant messages in November 2016 about a Max simulator that wasn’t working, according to a former colleague. When congressional investigators released those messages this October, they caused an outcry because they seemed to suggest Boeing knew of issues long before the Max was flying. What they may show instead is a lousy information loop at the company.

Early in 2016 test pilots and engineers had expanded the authority of a software system that had the ability to point the Max’s nose down. It was meant to address a limited stall condition most pilots would never see. But Forkner and others working on the simulator hadn’t been alerted about the change or that FAA staff had already observed it activate during test flights. “Why are we just now hearing about this?” Forkner wrote. His lawyer didn’t respond to emailed questions.

Problems with the system have been tied to a single point of failure—a vane that measures the angle of the plane’s nose against the oncoming wind. When it malfunctions, the measure trips a bewildering array of cockpit warnings including a thumping alert known as a stick-shaker that indicates a plane is in danger of stalling.

Boeing never tested how pilots would respond to such a failure, which later occurred in the accidents. “When they look back, the failure to adequately test this in the sim was Problem One,” says Chris Hart, former chairman of the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board, who led a panel of aviation authorities examining the Max’s shortcomings. “Fragmentation played a big role in it, the failure to communicate.”

Boeing has vowed a massive pilot training initiative, part of a broader effort to reinforce safety. Pilots say it’s recently advertised jobs for more in-house trainers. Muilenburg says Boeing has already begun rethinking the design of its flight decks to ensure human responses are adequately considered.

But no reexamination can reverse the human toll suffered before the Max’s initial design and training flaws were discovered. Boeing delivered the first Max jets to a Lion Air subsidiary in mid-2017. Just 15 months later, the carrier’s pilots on successive flights were forced to troubleshoot the design problem that Boeing had missed.

Taking the Max through a preflight checklist in Jakarta in October 2018, Lion Air Captain Bhavye Suneja typified the new generation of pilots across Asia. At 31, he’d amassed 6,000 hours of flying time, mostly on the 737. He didn’t know that one of the tiny vanes that measures the angle of the plane’s nose was broken and would set off a terrifying fight for control of the plane. On a previous flight of the same aircraft, a pilot in the jump seat had suggested flipping two switches to cut power to the stabilizer pushing the nose down but had left no mention of it in their logbooks. So Suneja lacked a crucial piece of information that might have avoided tragedy. As a result, horrified crewmen watched from an oil platform as the almost brand-new $120 million plane plunged into the Java Sea, killing all 189 aboard.

Days later, Boeing issued a checklist reminding pilots they can flip the switches to disable the stabilizer. It also began work on a software update to keep a broken vane from triggering the system.

In March, Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 took off from Addis Ababa and dropped out of the sky six minutes later. Captain Yared Getachew, 29, and his co-pilot quickly recognized that the rogue software behind the Lion Air crash had kicked in. They hit the cutout switches, but amid the confusion left the jet’s engines gunning at full takeoff throttle, making it difficult to control. They flipped the switches back on, and the plane dove. An additional 157 people were dead. “We cry every day,” says Michael Stumo, father of Samya Stumo, 24, one of the victims.
|December 3, 2019;Drug Cartels Muscle Into Mexican Town Packed With Americans;There are the cobblestone streets, the colonial-era buildings and wrought-iron balconies, the neo-Gothic steeples soaring high above the pink-sandstone church anchoring a corner of the main plaza. Travel and Leisure magazine has twice named it the best city in the world, a ratification of how beloved it is with tourists and retirees from the U.S., Canada and beyond.But lately, San Miguel has been attracting a very different sort of crowd: the drug cartels. And the moment they arrived and began pushing cocaine and imposing their brutal brand of property tax, the murders began.

A restaurateur died in a hail of gunfire in front of horrified customers after he refused to pay extortion demands. The son of the owner of a construction-materials business was killed on his way to work.  A tortilla shop owner in the nearby town of Celaya was gunned down along with two of her employees. And a fruit vendor, a convenience store operator, another restaurateur and three cantina owners closed their doors after shakedown-visits and, it would appear, are lying low.

This kind of crime was unthinkable here just a few months ago. “It’s still hard to believe,” said Manuel, a restaurant manager who, like many others, would give only his first name for fear of reprisal.

San Miguel has joined the chilling list of tourist destinations—Cancun, Los Cabos, even Mexico City itself—that are losing their perceived immunity from the drug wars that have ravaged much of Mexico for years, captured in headlines about beheadings, mass graves and broad-daylight shootouts.All of which presents a major challenge to President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador and his markedly hands-off approach to crime. A leftist who took office a year ago, his strategy is “abrazos, no balazos,” or “hugs, not shots,’’ as he has described it.  

Not only are more Mexicans being killed than ever—28,741 so far this year—but the bloodshed is complicating the president’s push to fight poverty, because it is discouraging investment and deepening the slump in an economy that slid into recession in the first half of the year. 

“Security is a nation-wide problem now and unfortunately no one can escape it,” said Javier Quiroga, head of the bar and cantina association in Guanajuato, the state where San Miguel is located. “It’s getting harder for people to go about their regular activities.”

Carved out of the arid plateau that runs through central Mexico, San Miguel is just a few hours drive from Mexico City. A UNESCO World Heritage Site, it is an Instagrammer’s dream and a favorite for foodies. The weather is near-perfect all year round. By some estimates, the population of 160,000 includes as many as 10,000 expatriates, mostly Americans and Canadians, who live here at least part-time.

The cartels have so far spared the boutiques, cafes and art galleries popular with tourists and expats. The automakers in the region, including Volkswagen AG and General Motors Co., haven’t been subjected to what small business owners have had to endure; their operations are well defended in gated industrial parks. Although the hotel occupancy fell 15% in August from the year before, according to data from the Tourism Ministry, the culprit may be the slumping economy, not safety concerns.

And strolling the main streets and alleys during the day, it doesn’t seem that anything, really, has changed. The balloon vendors still ply their trade and the stalls selling esquites—a corn-salad snack beloved in this part of Mexico—continue to do brisk business. Members of Lopez Obrador’s newly-created national guard showed up for a few days over the summer, though usually the only visible security forces are the municipal police officers in their dark navy uniforms, walking their regular beats.

Carol Quinn, a Canadian who rents an apartment in San Miguel for extended periods of time, said she’s not unconcerned by what she hears and reads about the lawlessness. “I’m a little more nervous, a bit more conscious,” she said as she sat on a bench near a church hosting a wedding.  “But I’ll still come.”

Talk to people like Manuel, the restaurant manager, and the conversation is quite different. They will tell you about the increase in criminal activity, in drug use by locals, in derecho de piso payments to thugs who ask, not politely, for money or services in exchange for letting mom-and-pop stores to continue operating. The cartels are aggressive, forcing small businesses to employ their members or to become de facto members themselves.

In August, according to local shop keepers and media reports, one gang dropped off bags of cocaine at a cantina, telling the owner they were worth 300,000 pesos ($15,300) and that the money would be collected in the next couple of weeks. The owner shut the bar and fled the city. A variation of the same happened at two other cantinas.

The office of Mayor Luis Alberto Villarreal didn’t respond to requests for comment about the crime wave, which has swept across the state. Homicides in Guanajuato have gone up by 260% since 2015; this year, 47 police officers have been killed, more than in any other state, according to Causa en Comun, a nonprofit that tracks police murders in Mexico.
One reason for the surge is that the government crackdown on fuel thefts in the region spurred cartels to look for alternative income sources to finance their operations and turf wars. Beyond that, some of the big gangs have splintered and the competition for new territory has heated up.

Drug lords “are looking to make a name for themselves and to get some money quick,” said Gladys McCormick, an associate history professor who specializes in Mexico-U.S. relations at Syracuse University in New York. “Extortion is the easiest way to do that.” 

Cartel attacks have become more brazen nationwide. In October, more than a dozen police officers were killed in Michoacan state by men in armored trucks; days later, cartel members terrorized the city of Culiacan with heavy weaponry in broad daylight. Last month, gunmen killed nine dual U.S.-Mexican citizens riding in a convoy 60 miles from the Arizona border in an area that has been contested ground for cartels. Over the weekend, armed men in several trucks descended on Villa Union, a town near the border with Texas, and began shooting up city hall. During a battle with security forces, 16 of the gunmen were killed, along with four state police officers and two civilians.   

That the drug violence has reached San Miguel de Allende “is a dark cloud on the horizon because it heralds that nowhere is safe anymore,” McCormick said. “The fact there is such an international presence in San Miguel de Allende guarantees that the fear felt inside the city will echo beyond Mexico.”
|December 12, 2019;BuzzFeed Wants to Sell You More Stuff;BuzzFeed Inc. is expanding its business of connecting shoppers and retailers to seven more countries as the digital publisher tries to become profitable and rely less on advertising.

Like many media companies, BuzzFeed has a so-called affiliate business, which gives the company a cut of the sale when a reader buys a product after clicking a link on its website.


广告


Those links send readers to e-commerce sites like Amazon.com Inc., and media outlets typically get 10% of the sale. BuzzFeed, which has been embedding affiliate links since 2016, has embraced the business with its famous lists and colloquial headlines such as “Sorry, But If You Don’t Have These 44 Products, Your Kitchen Is Probably Incomplete.”

Since September, BuzzFeed has expanded the affiliate business to Japan, Australia, the U.K., Canada, Mexico, Brazil and India. It’s publishing in the native languages of those countries and working with retailers such as Amazon, Uniqlo Co., Etsy Inc. and Hennes & Mauritz AB.

As part of the expansion, BuzzFeed promoted Nilla Ali to senior vice president of commerce. Ali said media companies often inspire readers to buy products but haven’t been directly rewarded for it. The affiliate business can change that.

“Publishers can build a more sustainable business if they’re getting credit for what they’re driving,” said Ali, who formerly worked on Time Inc.’s e-commerce strategy.BuzzFeed has a team of writers and editors publishing articles with affiliate links in several countries and works with more than 1,000 retailers. Some shopping-focused posts are being displayed prominently on the BuzzFeed homepage.

It’s become a popular new revenue stream across the industry. Three years ago, for instance, the New York Times bought the Wirecutter, which reviews products and gets a cut of the sales.

One of BuzzFeed’s biggest sellers has been a beauty product called Aztec Secret Indian Healing Clay. One BuzzFeed post about it was headlined: “This Clay Mask Basically Vacuums Out Your Pores, and BRB I’m Going to Bathe in It.”

BuzzFeed is trying to develop new sources of revenue as online advertising growth becomes harder with Facebook and Google dominating the market. BuzzFeed’s commerce business, which includes affiliate links and product licensing, has grown to 21% of its total revenue this year from 9% in 2017.

BuzzFeed is on pace to increase sales this year and generate more than $300 million in revenue, which the closely held company said will represent a single-digit percentage increase from last year. It expects to turn a profit in the second half of 2019 but not be profitable for the year.

In January, BuzzFeed cut about 15% of its staff. The company doesn’t have any immediately plans to go public.

In May, Recode reported that Amazon had approached some U.S. publishers, including BuzzFeed and the New York Times, about potentially paying them to expand their affiliate business overseas. A BuzzFeed spokeswoman declined to comment about its specific business deals with retail partners.

BuzzFeed plans to expand its affiliate business beyond retail into new industries like education, finance and entertainment. As an early example, it published an article last month listing the shows and movies on the new Disney+ streaming service, calling it “a genuine gift from the movie gods of past, present, and future!” The post included links that sent readers to a Walt Disney Co. website where they could subscribe.
