December 17, 2019;Carlyle, Singapore Fund Acquire Stake in AmEx Travel UnitAmerican Express Global Business Travel said Carlyle Group and several big name investors are buying a stake in the corporate travel company.American Express Co. will retain 50% ownership, according to a statement Tuesday. The deal values the unit at $5 billion, including debt, according to a person familiar with the matter.The unit offers travel services primarily to businesses that need to book airfare and hotel rooms. The corporate travel business is growing. More than $305 billion was spent on such travel in 2018, a 4.5% gain from the year earlier, according to Bloomberg Intelligence, citing data from the Global Business Travel Association.The deal was led by Certares, and other investors include the Qatar Investment Authority, Singapore’s GIC Pte, funds managed by BlackRock Inc, the University of California’s Office of the Chief Investment Officer of the Regents and Kaiser Permanente, according to the statement from the Jersey City, New Jersey-based unit.American Express shares rose 1.1% to $125.05 at 1:35 p.m. in New York trading. Dow Jones reported the transaction earlier Tuesday.
December 12, 2019;Canada’s TD Beats Its U.S. Banking Competitors on Their Own Turf;Toronto-Dominion Bank made service at its U.S. unit such a central part of its sales pitch that the Canadian company trademarked the description “America’s Most Convenient Bank” as part of its name. Now a study backs up the claim.TD Bank bested U.S. rivals including JPMorgan Chase & Co. on their home turf, taking the top spot in J.D. Power’s latest national banking satisfaction study. TD scored 851 on a 1,000-point scale, while Chase tied for second with PNC, each scoring 846. They were followed by Capital One, U.S. Bank, Wells Fargo, Bank of America and Citibank.With more than 1,200 locations along the East Coast, TD Bank offers seamless digital banking and strong checking-account products “while excelling at branch service and online banking satisfaction,” J.D. Power said in a statement Thursday. The study, based on responses from 8,337 retail banking customers surveyed in August and September, ranks U.S. bank holding companies that have domestic deposits exceeding $200 billion.Toronto-Dominion started calling its U.S. bank America’s most convenient in November 2008, with Bharat Masrani, the division’s top executive at the time, promising “legendary customer service.” Six years later, he became chief executive officer of its Toronto-based parent, Canada’s second-largest lender by assets.
December 10, 2019;Peloton Falls as Citron Takes Aim at ‘Unrealistic Valuation’;Peloton shares tumbled on Tuesday, dropping as much as 8.3% after Citron Research wrote that increasing competition and a high valuation could result in a massive sell-off in 2020.The firm sees “clear flaws in the Peloton business model” and wrote that the stock could fall to $5 next year. Based on the Monday close of $34.77, that target represents downside of more than 85%. At current levels, Peloton is up nearly 12% since its September initial public offering.Peloton’s current valuation is “unrealistic” and “disconnected from all reality,” the firm wrote in a report, adding that the fitness company has “all the makings of a compelling short.”In particular, Citron calculated that the company’s enterprise-value-per-subscriber amounted to more than $15,600, significantly above the $655 average of its peers.Citron also cited increasing competition as part of its bear call, noting that the company’s hardware hasn’t meaningfully changed since its exercise bike was introduced in 2014, while newer players have had added unique screen options.“While Peloton has enjoyed a first mover advantage, the lack of differentiation of its bike has finally caught up to it as the competition is not only making virtually identical exercise bikes but ones that are both more affordable and functional,” Citron wrote in the report.While Peloton’s ads have been the subject of some controversy, Wall Street is almost unanimously positive on the stock’s prospects. Currently, 19 firms recommend buying Peloton, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Only one has a hold rating on the shares and none recommend selling it. (Citron isn’t included among the firms Bloomberg tracks.)Among recent positive commentary, both KeyBanc Capital Markets and Baird have suggested that the company is seeing strong demand for the holiday season.
December 12, 2019;U.S. Business Debt Exceeds Households' for First Time Since 1991;U.S. business debt exceeded that of households for the first time since 1991, a potential warning sign for the economy as corporate investment softens.Nonfinancial companies boosted debt at a faster 5.7% annual pace in the third quarter to a total outstanding $15.987 trillion, while household borrowing slowed to a 3.3% rise to reach $15.986 trillion, Federal Reserve data showed Thursday. Federal government debt climbed 10.4%, the most since early 2018, to $18.9 trillion.With the record-long expansion in its 11th year, Fed policy makers have indicated in recent months that they’re watching the corporate debt situation closely. Chairman Jerome Powell said in October that “leverage among corporations and other forms of business, private businesses, is historically high. We’ve been monitoring it carefully and taking appropriate steps.”Powell also said at the time that “in the aggregate, the household sector is in a very good place.”Corporate debt has ballooned with business investment declining for two straight quarters. While business investment has historically climbed when borrowing rose, companies now are increasingly using that credit to return money to investors.The Fed data also showed net worth for households and non-profit groups increased $573.6 billion, or 0.5%, to $113.8 trillion after a 1.7% gain in the prior period.U.S. stocks rose at a slower pace in the third quarter as threats of additional tariffs on China followed by more upbeat trade news whipsawed investors. Households’ holdings of real estate, a key source of wealth, rose to $32.9 trillion in the third quarter from $32.7 trillion as low mortgage rates, steady demand and an inventory squeeze continued to push up home values.The value of equities directly and indirectly held by households and nonprofit groups eased to $30.3 trillion from $30.5 trillion in the prior quarter.Consumer credit expanded an annualized 5.1% in the third quarter, while mortgage debt increased at a 2.7% pace.
December 13, 2019;Business Class Flying Is Under Attack;Michael O’Leary of Ryanair Holdings Plc is an unlikely spokesman for how aviation can avoid killing the planet. The budget travel evangelist has delighted in disparaging “eco-warriors” and casting doubt on climate science. But as chairman of the European airline association, A4E, he’s now front and center of the effort to persuade governments not to impose new climate taxes on the industry. It’s not going well.This week the European Commission’s president Ursula von der Leyen unveiled a plan to make the continent carbon neutral by 2050. Her Green Deal is still thin on detail, but it’s already prompted plenty of criticism — from the green groups who say it doesn’t go far enough to the big polluters who fear it will harm their competitiveness, such as coal-dependent Poland and the airlines.One aim of the Green Deal is to make the price of transport “reflect the impact it has on the environment.” Accordingly, Europe will review aviation’s tax exemptions — kerosene isn’t taxed — and consider cutting the free allowances allocated to airlines under Europe’s emissions trading system.The airlines think they’re being unfairly maligned. They contribute about 2% of global emissions, a fraction of what cars and trucks produce. But unlike road transport, the aviation industry doesn’t have a convincing plan to decarbonize. Europe’s airlines are spending 170 billion euros ($189 billion) on new fuel-efficient aircraft, but these will still spew out carbon. Synthetic fuels are expensive and battery limitations mean emission-free commercial flights are years away.Aviation is typical of the trade-offs we’ll have to make to get to net-zero emissions. So far we’ve only done the easy stuff that doesn’t force people to give up much or pay more for cheap products and services. The airlines are lobbying for better air traffic management in Europe’s crowded skies, which would cut the amount of fuel used. But there’s only a certain amount of carbon we can keep emitting before things go from bad to catastrophic.The question of who will have to cut back most on their polluting raises issues around economic growth and fairness: The top 10% of most frequent fliers took more than half of all flights from England last year, while almost half the population don’t fly at all. Airlines don’t even agree among themselves about whether to punish the business lounge elite or the weekend City breakers.  IATA, the airline trade body, boasted this week that more than 4.5 billion passengers will take a flight this year as tickets become ever cheaper. The average return fare, adjusted for inflation and taxes, is almost two-thirds lower than it was 20 years ago. “Flying is freedom,” Iata’s Alexandre de Juniac intoned.But even flying fanatics are no longer convinced that its growth should be unconstrained. Over-tourism in the Mediterranean has brought this to wider attention. When the environmental impact of a business isn’t priced in, there can be such a thing as too much freedom. Ryanair makes the reasonable point that aviation taxes are a levy on the poor. Making flights more expensive will hurt those for whom 20 euros in new taxes, say, is the difference between flying and staying home. It’s fine to encourage people to take a train, but rail fares are often higher, and decent services are concentrated in richer European countries. A similar debate is raging in the car industry, where the cost of electric batteries could make small cars — often bought by the young and elderly — uneconomical.Hence the budget airline Wizz Air Holdings Plc struck a nerve with a video that calls for the business class cabins of its big legacy rivals to be banned. 1 “We think you’re doing great… harm to our planet… Are all those empty seats worth the damage they cause?” the narrator asks.Wizz is, of course, talking its own book; it doesn’t offer business class. But in a carbon-constrained world, abolishing business and first class isn’t so outlandish. Because of their ability to sell out flights and cram passengers on-board, Wizz and Ryanair are Europe’s two most efficient airlines when measured on CO2 per passenger km traveled.
December 18, 2019;A Geeky Fix From Harvard Business School for Political Gridlock;Two little-discussed changes to how elections are conducted in the U.S. would have a “powerful” effect on reducing political dysfunction, says a new report from Harvard Business School.One of the recommended changes is to replace party primaries with a single nonpartisan primary, in which the top five finishers would move on to the general election, regardless of party. The other is to choose from among those five finalists using a system of ranked-choice voting, which benefits candidates who are acceptable to a broad swath of the electorate.Those two fixes would be more effective than the reforms that are most often recommended, such as term limits, campaign finance reform, and the elimination of gerrymandering, according to the report (PDF), which is called A Recovery Squandered: The State of U.S. Competitiveness 2019.“We believe that there’s a widespread misunderstanding of what’s causing the gridlock and dysfunction,” says Katherine Gehl, a co-author of the report. Gehl, the former chief executive officer of Wisconsin-based Gehl Foods LLC and now CEO of Venn Innovation Inc., describes herself as a “political innovation activist.” She teamed up on the political analysis with Michael Porter, who’s been leading Harvard Business School’s competitiveness studies since the first one in 2011.A Recovery Squandered argues that fixing politics is a key to fixing U.S. competitiveness. The fault lies not with individual politicians or parties but in the system itself, which robs them of the incentive to cooperate for the common good, the report says.In ranked-choice voting, voters rank all the candidates in order of preference. If no one gets a majority, the least favored candidate is dropped, and his or her voters are allocated to the candidate they listed second. This continues until someone gets a majority. Candidates thus have an incentive to appeal to a wide range of voters.Ranked-choice voting exists in several U.S. cities already and was approved by New York City voters in November for citywide primaries and special elections. To be effective it must be coupled with nonpartisan primaries, Gehl says in an interview. Today, she says, “the partisan primary creates an eye of the needle through which no problem-solving politician can pass.”Although Washington state and California have nonpartisan primaries, no one has combined them with ranked-choice voting, Gehl says. Alaska could be the first to vote for such a system in a 2020 ballot initiative, she says.Porter, in the same interview, said the “overriding finding” of the study, which included a survey of Harvard Business School alumni, was that “we haven’t gotten anything done in a long time in government, our federal government in particular.” And, he added, “business is actually making the partisanship worse” through lobbying, spending on elections, and involvement in ballot initiatives.
December 4, 2019;Amazon Faces Widening U.S. Antitrust Scrutiny in Cloud Business;U.S. antitrust enforcers have broadened their scrutiny of Amazon.com Inc. beyond its retail operations to include its massive cloud-computing business, according to people familiar with the matter.Investigators at the U.S. Federal Trade Commission have been asking software companies recently about practices around Amazon’s cloud unit, known as Amazon Web Services, said the people, who declined to be named because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.The outreach by the FTC signals that the agency, which is already looking at Amazon’s conduct in its vast online retail business, is taking a broader look at the company to determine whether it could be violating antitrust laws and harming competition.The FTC and Amazon declined to comment. The agency’s scrutiny won’t necessarily result in an enforcement action against the company.AWS dominates the market for foundational cloud-computing technology that provides the storage and computing power needed to run applications. It is several times bigger than its next largest rival, Microsoft Corp.’s Azure, according to analyst estimates. Gartner Inc. puts AWS’s share at 48% and Microsoft’s at 16%.AWS accounted for 60% of Amazon’s operating income in the most recently reported 12 months. The unit’s profitability in recent years has helped keep investors happy even as the company continues to spend heavily to expand both its retail and cloud-computing businesses.Amazon also sells an array of products that run on top of those basic services, such as databases, machine-learning tools and data-warehousing products. It competes with hundreds of other software companies large and small that offer similar products.One issue the FTC could look at is whether Amazon has an incentive to discriminate against those software companies, which sell their products to clients of AWS, while at the same time competing with Amazon. The fear is that Amazon could punish the companies that work with other cloud providers and favor those that it works with exclusively.The dynamic echos that in Amazon’s retail marketplace, where third-party sellers depend on the platform to reach customers because of its size, but in many cases they also compete with Amazon’s own products. That’s a conflict that threatens competition, according to critics.The FTC’s Amazon inquiry is part of antitrust investigations sweeping across the technology industry. Federal and state authorities are investigating Alphabet Inc.’s Google and Facebook Inc. while the House Judiciary Committee is examining conduct of those companies as well as Amazon and Apple Inc.
December 4, 2019;New Jersey Business Owners Expect Worst Start to Year Since 2009;New Jersey business owners reported that growth rates slowed for annual profits, sales and purchases in 2019, with most saying their outlook for the state’s economy is at its lowest in a decade, an annual survey shows.Members of the New Jersey Business and Industry Association expect the new year’s first six months to be their weakest since 2009, as the Great Recession was taking hold. More than half say they’re bracing for a recession in 2020 or 2021, according to the Trenton-based group’s 61st annual survey, released on Wednesday.Almost 80% of respondents said the high-cost state was a fair or poor place to open or expand. Almost 90% said taxes and fees were worse in New Jersey than elsewhere. Among the top concerns were controlling government spending and the costs of labor, health care and compliance.“While our greatest assets like our schools and workforce continue to rank high, the factors driving our ability to afford those assets continue to be even more expensive and of greater concern year over year,” Michele Siekerka, the group’s president and chief executive officer, said in a statement.
December 18, 2019;Apollo and Blackstone Are Stealing Wall Street’s Loans Business;On the surface it was a classic leveraged takeover -- $1.8 billion of debt to fund the acquisition of Gannett Co. And just like hundreds before it, front and center was Apollo Global Management. Except this time, the private equity giant wasn’t the borrower. It was the lender.The deal is part of a major shift occurring in global finance. Direct lenders, including more and more hedge funds and buyout firms, are preparing to dish out billions of dollars at a time to lure borrowers away from the $1.2 trillion leveraged loan market.It’s the latest push by alternative asset managers into what was once the exclusive territory of the world’s biggest investment banks. And while Wall Street voluntarily ceded much of its business lending to medium-sized companies in the aftermath of the financial crisis, this time the iron grip it has on arranging the industry’s bigger loans is being pried open, jeopardizing some of its juiciest fees.“Direct lenders have raised significant capital to allow them to commit to larger deals,” said Randy Schwimmer, head of origination and capital markets at Churchill Asset Management. “It’s an arms race.”It’s a striking reversal of fortune for syndicated-lending desks that spent the last 10 years luring business away from the high-yield bond market, the original source of buyout financing for big, risky companies. Even as recently as the beginning of the year, deals in excess of $1 billion were largely seen as the private domain of bulge-bracket banks, which arrange and sell them to institutional investors.Not anymore.Apollo said last month that it’s looking to do deals in the $2 billion range. Rival Blackstone Group Inc. is actively pitching a trio of billion-dollar financings that it intends to hold entirely itself, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. (The firm declined to comment.) And private-credit standouts including Owl Rock Capital and HPS Investment Partners are also setting their sights on bigger loans.The August financing of New Media Investment Group Inc.’s acquisition of Gannett came on the heels of a $1.25 billion direct loan by Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s private-investment arm -- one of the few of its kind under a Wall Street bank -- and HPS to fund Ion Investment Group’s purchase of financial data provider Acuris.And in October, a group of about 10 lenders including Owl Rock banded together to provide a $1.6 billion loan to refinance the debt of insurance brokerage Risk Strategies.“There are bigger pools of capital” now, said Craig Packer, co-founder of Owl Rock, which controls more than $14 billion. “Our holdings of individual loans are therefore larger than was previously available from smaller lenders.”Investors have plowed hundreds of billions of dollars into private debt funds in recent years, lured by premiums that are more than five percentage points higher than competing public debt, according to a Goldman Sachs analysis.Assets under management now exceed $800 billion, based on the most recent data available from London-based research firm Preqin, including over $250 billion of dry power. In contrast, leveraged loan growth has begun to stall, with the size of the U.S. market now hovering around $1.2 trillion, up less than 4% from a year earlier.Partly as a result of direct lenders increasingly allowing borrowers to bypass the syndication process, compensation for arranging leveraged loans has plunged. Fees are down 29% this year through November, to about $8.5 billion, versus the same period last year, according to Freeman Consulting Services estimates.The biggest players in the industry say the shift is just getting started.Apollo predicts as much as 10% of the more than $2.5 trillion high-yield loan and bond market will go private over the next five years, John Zito, co-head of global corporate credit, said at the company’s Nov. 7 Investor Day.The alternative asset manager sees the privatization of global credit mirroring a similar trend that’s swept equity markets in recent years.In fact, many say the continued expansion of private equity will only help fuel the growth of direct lending.“As private equity capacity increases, more deals and larger deals are being done in the private space,” Benoit Durteste, chief executive officer of Intermediate Capital Group, said in a report by the Alternative Credit Council last month. “This is why we are seeing larger and larger deals in private debt and the limits keep on being pushed.”Growing execution risk in the leveraged loan market is also prompting buyout firms to increasingly turn to private sources of financing, according to market participants.Loan buyers have been drawing a line and either bypassing or demanding significant concessions to lend to companies that may struggle in an economic downturn. On the flip side, private debt transactions can often be arranged in a fraction of the time it takes for a public-market deal, while limited scope for pricing adjustments provides sponsors with greater cost certainty.Yet efforts to win deals away from investment banks, along with growing competition among direct lenders looking to deploy more than a quarter-trillion dollars of pent up cash, have some worried about weakening lending standards in the industry.The club loan to Risk Strategies boosted the company’s leverage multiple to seven times a key measure of earnings, as much -- if not more -- than the issuer would have been able to get away with in the leveraged loan market, according to people with knowledge of the matter. While the financing includes a maintenance covenant, its terms are loose enough that the company would likely already be struggling to meet interest obligations before the safeguard is triggered, said the people, who asked not to be identified because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly.“We are worried about how much debt has gone there versus going to the public market, and what that means in a downturn because there’s no liquidity” in private credit, said Elaine Stokes, a portfolio manager at Loomis Sayles & Co. in Boston. “That could seep into the public markets, if you end up having people becoming forced sellers.”For others, the growth of direct lending is simply part of the natural evolution of credit markets.“It’s part of a broader harmonization,” said Jeffrey Ross, chair of Debevoise & Plimpton’s finance group. “The broadly-syndicated loan market for the past 10 years has evolved to look and trade like high-yield bonds. There’s been a similar convergence between the middle-market and bulge-bracket lenders.”
December 17, 2019;Unilever Might Be Better Off Out of the Food Business;Unilever NV has made a great deal of “instilling purpose” into its products, trying to flag up the social and environmental credentials of things from Dove shower gel to Magnum ice cream to appeal to millennial consumers. It doesn’t seem to be doing much for its sales.The Anglo-Dutch company surprised the stock market on Tuesday, warning that revenue growth this year would be below its 3% to 5% range. And it won’t bounce back quickly. Unilever forecasts sales increases will be in the lower half of its target range in 2020, with most progress coming in the second half.The company said it was suffering from an economic slowdown in south Asia, particularly India, Pakistan and Bangladesh, and difficult trading conditions in west Africa. Meanwhile, its big-selling north American products such as ice cream and hair care are still recovering from a sluggish period, while competition is fierce in parts of Europe.Yet Unilever must take some of the blame for its own predicament. Its rival Nestle SA has managed steady sales growth, while pulling off some canny acquisitions and disposals.After a failed takeover approach from Kraft Heinz Co. back in 2017, Unilever set the goal of lifting its operating margin from 16% to 20% by 2020. Alan Jope, the chief executive officer, could have ditched this target when he took the reins at the start of this year to give himself more firepower to invest. But it seems he’s sticking with it: The company said on Tuesday that the goal wouldn’t be affected by the sales slowdown. While Unilever insists it’s spending enough on research and development and marketing, Jope may have to back his biggest brands with more funds to make sure they’re competitive. That would have to come at the expense of margins. He also needs to decide in which categories Unilever wants to compete, and reshape its sprawling portfolio accordingly. It’s admirable that the company generates close to 60% of its sales in emerging markets, and operates in popular areas such as beauty and personal care. Unfortunately, it is also over-exposed to more sluggish food ranges such as tea and dressings.Jope could do worse than learn from Nestle’s CEO Mark Schneider. The latter has been quick to prune unwanted categories, recently selling its U.S. ice cream business to a joint venture between itself and private equity. Nestle has also been buying in its preferred product areas, such as coffee.Unilever, meanwhile, has been less bold, undertaking a plethora of small acquisitions — from fake meat to fancy laundry products. The group generated only about 0.5 percentage points of growth from its acquisitions and disposals in the first half of the financial year; Jope says he’ll slow the pace of bolt-on deals and step up disposals.If he doesn’t hurry, someone else might attempt to do some portfolio tidying for him. Kraft Heinz isn’t in a position to make another approach. But an activist investor may be tempted. Selling Unilever’s foods and refreshments business for cash is a possibility, although a demerger might be complicated by Unilever’s dual British and Dutch structure.The food unit could have an enterprise value of 55 billion euros ($61 billion), according to UBS analysts. So offloading it would generate proceeds to invest in higher growth products, while allowing the return of cash to investors. On a price-to-earnings basis, Nestle’s premium over Unilever is widening. An aggressive investor may spot a corporate purpose of their own.
December 18, 2019;German Business Outlook Improves as Weak Year Draws to Close;German business expectations improved for a third month in December, a sign manufacturers are starting to see a way out of a yearlong downturn that’s left Europe’s largest economy deeply scarred.It’s the first piece of encouraging news after a gauge of factory activity pointed to an unexpected worsening at the end of 2019, and the Bundesbank predicted growth will remain sluggish at least through 2020 as the impact of trade tensions, weaker global growth and political uncertainty only slowly wears off.The Ifo Institute’s gauge rose the most since mid-2018 to 93.8, exceeding most estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The measure of the current situation rose, as did the overall business climate indicator.Fledgling optimism among the 9,000 firms surveyed adds to assertions by the Economy Ministry as well as private investors that -- despite remaining risks -- Germany’s outlook is gradually getting brighter.The increase in sentiment, partly on the back of the U.S.-China trade agreement, is just the first step, and it may be some time before hard data follow. Both industrial production and factory orders dropped at the start of the fourth quarter.The trade deal is “good news and probably one of the reasons companies become more optimistic,” Clemens Fuest, president of the Ifo Institute, said on Bloomberg Television,. “At the same time, many companies are still cautious, because we know U.S. commercial policy is very volatile.”Last week, the European Central Bank lowered its projection for growth in the wider euro area next year. At the same time, President Christine Lagarde pointed to signs of stabilization and argued downside risks had become “somewhat less pronounced.”
December 17, 2019;JAB Weighs IPO for Coffee Business Including Peet’s Brand;JAB Holding Co. said it’s considering an initial public offering of a coffee business including brands such as Peet’s and Jacobs.The investment firm, backed by the billionaire Reimann family, plans to combine the Jacobs Douwe Egberts and Peet’s units in a single entity prior to a possible listing. The company aims to raise as much as 3 billion euros ($3.4 billion), the Financial Times reported, citing unidentified people familiar with the matter.JAB said in February that it was considering an IPO of its coffee business. The firm has spent tens of billions of dollars investing in brands such as Caribou, Stumptown and Intelligentsia, challenging Nestle SA and Starbucks Corp. for leadership in the industry. JAB has also acquired fast-food brands ranging from Krispy Kreme Doughnuts to the Pret A Manger sandwich chain.The new concern created from the merger, JDE Peet’s, will operate in more than 140 countries and have revenues of about 7 billion euros, according to a statement. Other brands included in the new coffee business include Senseo, Tassimo and Pickwick.JAB is considering Amsterdam for the listing, the FT reported. Peet’s Coffee Chief Executive Officer Casey Keller will become CEO of JDE Peet’s in January 2020, the company said.
December 27, 2019;Thai Tycoons Vie for Tesco’s $7 Billion Asia Business;The Thailand and Malaysian operations of Britain’s largest supermarket chain Tesco Plc. are on the shopping lists of Thai tycoons.Thai billionaire Dhanin Chearavanont’s Charoen Pokphand Group and Central Group, controlled by Chirathivat family, are among companies that are weighing bids for the Southeast Asian business that could fetch more than $7 billion, according to people with knowledge of the matter.CP Group and Central Group are holding discussions with financial advisers preparing for separate bids, said the people, who asked not to be identified as the information is private. TCC Group, controlled by Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi, has also expressed interest, the people said.Tesco said in December that it is carrying out a strategic review of its Thai and Malaysian businesses after receiving interest. A sale of the Asian operations would allow the supermarket chain to get an infusion of cash to continue a restructuring of its core U.K. business that has cut thousands of jobs.Tesco is expected to call for initial bids for the businesses as soon as next month, the people said. Companies might decide against making any offer as deliberations continue, the people added.A representative for Tesco said the company has no comment beyond its Dec. 8 statement. A spokesman at CP Group said the company has no information to share at the moment, while a representative for Central Group declined to comment. TCC Group isn’t immediately available for comment.Tesco has more than 2,000 hypermarkets and convenience stores in Thailand under the “Tesco Lotus” brand. The chain was founded by CP Group in 1994 and later taken over by the British firm, according to its company website. In Malaysia, Tesco has over 70 shops, according to its annual report. Malaysian conglomerate Sime Darby Bhd owns a 30% stake in Tesco Malaysia.Berli Jucker Pcl, controlled by TCC, bought a controlling stake in Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA’s Thailand supermarket chain Big C Supercenter Pcl for 3.1 billion euros ($3.45 billion) in 2016. Big C is the country’s second-largest supermarket chain behind Tesco Lotus.
December 11, 2019;U.S. CFOs’ Business Optimism Rises, Despite Recession Worries;Most senior finance executives at U.S. businesses believe the U.S. will be in an economic recession by the end of 2020, and 76% predict a recession by mid-2021, according to fourth-quarter results from the Duke University/CFO Global Business Outlook.But, even with a recession on the horizon, the U.S. firm CFOs lead the world in terms of optimism about the general business environment.At the company level, firms are taking steps to mitigate the effects of a recession by increasing their cash holdings.“Hoarding cash and reducing debt are the most obvious tactics to dull the blow of a recession,” said Campbell Harvey, professor at Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business.Globally, U.S. based firms have the highest degree of optimism about their own company. Capital spending is expected to rise 4.7% and wages are anticipated to grow 4.4%, the largest increases since the first-quarter survey.Economic uncertainty remains a major concern among CFOs around the world.The Duke University/CFO Global Business Outlook survey has been conducted for 95 consecutive quarters. The survey period ended Dec. 6 and generated responses from more than 800 CFOs, including nearly 500 in North America, 87 from Asia, 87 from Europe, 139 from Latin America and 40 from Africa.
December 8, 2019;IFF Vies With Kerry in Deal for DuPont Nutrition Business;International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. has emerged as a strong contender to purchase DuPont Inc.’s nutrition division, challenging Ireland’s Kerry Group for the $25 billion asset, according to people with knowledge of the matter.IFF and Kerry are both negotiating with DuPont and the winner could reach a deal by year-end, the people said, asking not to be identified as the discussions are private. The transaction will create a new company comprised of the bidder’s assets and DuPont’s nutrition business that will be spun off to existing investors, the people said.DuPont shareholders will emerge from the so-called Reverse Morris Trust with a significant stake in the business, the people said. The new company aims to have an investment-grade credit rating and its board will include directors from DuPont and the bidder, the people said. The transaction is likely to take at least a year to close, they said.Representatives for DuPont, IFF and Kerry declined to comment. Discussions between the companies could still fall apart or Dupont could opt for a spinoff instead, the people said.IFF presents DuPont Chairman Ed Breen and Chief Executive Officer Marc Doyle with a distinct alternative to Kerry. While an RMT is easier between two U.S. companies, IFF’s $7.1 billion purchase of Frutarom Industries Ltd. last year is still absorbing management time and has increased leverage. In Kerry, they have an Irish company with deep roots in the dairy industry that’s keen to expand in food ingredients. Kerry trades at a higher earnings multiple than IFF, offering a potentially bigger valuation uplift to DuPont shareholders.Shares of IFF dropped as much as 3.6% to $136.89 in New York. Kerry declined 0.1% to 116.40 euros in Dublin. Dupont gained as much as 2%.The purchase would make “strategic sense, allowing IFF to offer a more complete product suite to a broader customer base,” according to Mark Astrachan, an analyst at Stifel, who said it would make it the largest global specialty ingredients company. It would put IFF at a “strategic advantage versus peers, while not acquiring the asset would similarly disadvantage the company.”DuPont opted for the most tax-efficient option to reward shareholders after the value of its nutrition business had wallowed below industry levels as part of a diversified company.The deal would be the biggest ever for IFF, which makes flavors and fragrances for food, beverages, personal care and household products. The company’s last big acquisition was in the food-flavoring industry last year, when it bought Israel’s Frutarom Industries Ltd. for $7.1 billion including debt.Kerry has long wanted to expand in healthy bacteria strains, ingredients found in dietary supplements, cheese and bakery products, and nutritional products that claim to have some sort of role in assisting in disease treatment or prevention. Kerry’s heritage lies in milk, cheese and other dairy products, and the company collects a billion liters of milk a year from small family farms in the southwest of Ireland.
December 11, 2019;Cisco Enters Chip Market, Supplying Microsoft, Facebook;Cisco Systems Inc. has started supplying switch chips to major data-center operators, including Microsoft Corp. and Facebook Inc., opening up a new avenue to win orders from some of its largest networking-equipment customers.Cisco Silicon 1 is a switch semiconductor that’s already being used by Microsoft and Facebook in crucial networking equipment, the companies said Wednesday at an event in San Francisco. San Jose, California-based Cisco is now offering the chips, which it says are the fastest in the industry, to all of its customers, regardless of whether they buy its networking machinery. Previously Cisco’s chips were only available as components of its machines.The shift toward standalone chip sales is another departure from the business model that made Cisco one of the biggest companies in the technology industry. Cisco’s expensive proprietary combinations of hardware and software make up the backbone of much of the internet and corporate networks, and these products generate the bulk of the company’s revenue. The new initiative has the potential to attract business from customers who want to build their own machines instead of buying whole packages. It also puts Cisco in direct competition with its suppliers, Intel Corp. and Broadcom Inc., which also make switch chips that the networking equipment maker uses in some of its products.“From today -- and this is something that some of you never thought we’d do -- some of our customers will buy our silicon and build their own products if that’s what they choose to do,” Chief Executive Officer Chuck Robbins said at the event. “We really want our customers to consume this technology in any way they want.”As the internet infrastructure business moves away from suppliers who provide all the needs through locked-down combinations of hardware and software, Robbins has been pushing Cisco to adapt by becoming a bigger supplier of networking services and software. On his watch, software has risen to provide about 11% of revenue. Hardware still generates more than half of sales.Cisco shares rose less than 1% to $44.24 at 2:02 p.m. in New York. The stock gained 1.8% this year through Tuesday’s close.
The move into selling components is an attempt to win orders from the hyperscalers, such as Microsoft, Google and Amazon.com Inc.’s AWS, a group that has increasingly turned away from Cisco’s offerings and equipped their data centers with computers and networking gear designed in house. Those big cloud-computing vendors contribute as little as 2% of Cisco’s total sales, according to Raymond James analyst Simon Leopold.
Switch chips perform the crucial function of deciding where packets of data should go in a network of computers. They are designed to handle that task at great speed, and only a few companies have been successful in the market. Broadcom is the biggest provider of this type of chip as an individual component and has as much as 80% share, Leopold said. Intel took a bigger interest in the market in June when it bought startup Barefoot Networks.Cisco’s new offering will combine the attributes of both switch and routing chips, the company said. It’ll be able to move data very quickly and still be programmable, carrying the ability to have its function changed. Routing, directing traffic among networks, is typically conducted by groups of chips that bring other attributes but are unable to direct data fast enough for modern internet traffic loads. One chip providing all of the functions will simplify the operation of networks by eliminating the need for different layers of software, Cisco executives said.Offering up what was previously guarded as a proprietary advantage shows a flexibility at Cisco that has been increasing as Robbins works to transform the company. Analysts predict the build-it-yourself approach to networking, pioneered by the large cloud-service operators, over time will be copied by companies looking to reduce the cost of their data-center spending. That corporate market is one of Cisco’s biggest sources of revenue.Cisco’s equipment, including its chips, is designed by the company and manufactured by a third party, which it hasn’t identified.The company also announced a new router machine at the event, designed to better serve as the backbone for new fifth generation, or 5G, cellular networks. The Cisco 8000 will be based on the new chip. The company also unveiled plans for products that will support faster data transmission speeds over fiber-optic cables. Like the rest of the networking industry, Cisco is positioning itself to be a main provider of equipment for the predicted surge in internet traffic and data created by the proliferation of mobile systems.
December 14, 2019;China’s State Grid Nears Oman Electricity Stake Purchase;State Grid Corp. of China has agreed to acquire a 49% stake in Oman’s state-owned power transmission company in the first major privatization by the Middle East’s largest non-OPEC oil producer.The Chinese state-owned company announced the deal on its website Monday, without providing any financial details. The statement confirmed an earlier Bloomberg News report. State Grid will buy the stake in a transaction that values Oman Electricity Transmission Co. at about $2 billion, people familiar with the matter have said.The privatization attracted interest from large international investors and is the biggest in size in the country’s electricity sector, the people have said. The nation’s Nama Holding retain a controlling stake in Oman Electricity after the transaction.The deal is a landmark for the Gulf Arab monarchy as it embarks on asset sales of government-owned entities to plug one of the largest budget deficits among oil exporters. It’s also a sign of China’s rising interest in the Middle East amid plans by President Xi Jinping to increase the nation’s political clout and revive ancient trading routes under his “One Belt, One Road” initiative.Oman has one of the biggest budget shortfalls of all the sovereigns tracked by Fitch Ratings. The Gulf Arab monarchy’s finances have been hurt by lower oil prices, pushing the government to consider alternative sources of funding. It has been raising money from international debt markets to plug the deficit.Oman Electricity owns and operates the nation’s main transmission network. The company, which is a subsidiary of Nama Holding, posted profits of 23 million rials ($60 million) for the first half of the year, compared with 17 million rials for the same period last year, according to information on its website.Lazard Ltd. was the financial adviser for Nama Holding, while HSBC Holdings Plc. advised State Grid.
December 15, 2019;IFF Wins DuPont Nutrition Unit Over Kerry in $26.2 Billion Deal;International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. declined after the company reached a $26.2 billion agreement to acquire DuPont Inc.’s nutrition division, prevailing over three other bidders as it expands in the food-ingredients business.The transaction will create a new company comprised of the bidder’s assets and DuPont’s nutrition business. The entity will have an enterprise value of $45.4 billion, with DuPont shareholders getting a 55.4% stake and IFF shareholders getting 44.6%, the companies said in a statement Sunday after Bloomberg News reported the deal was near.Shares of IFF fell as much as 7.1% to $124.50 on Monday. The deal, the biggest ever for the New York-based company, looks expensive, according to Bloomberg Intelligence analyst Christoper Perrella.“They are really reaching,” Perrella said in a phone interview. “Frutarom is just a year old, and that acquisition didn’t go as well as expected.”Last year, IFF bought Israel’s Frutarom Industries Ltd. for $7.1 billion as it chased industry leader Givaudan SA.With DuPont struggling this year, analysts questioned the new company’s growth prospects during a conference call about the deal on Monday. DuPont Chairman Ed Breen said there were “three highly motivated bidders.” DuPont shares rose as much as 2.8% on Monday before paring most of the gain.Businesses are tapping into so-called wellness products as consumers become increasingly health-conscious. IFF makes flavors and fragrances for food, personal-care and household products. DuPont’s unit specializes in products such as sweeteners and emulsifiers to dairy cultures and dietary fibers, and has seen growth in areas such as plant-based meats and probiotics.IFF management said the two companies complement each other and told investors not to expect a great deal of scrutiny over antitrust matters. The company will be an “immediate leader” in health products, according to the statement.DuPont has felt pressures amid a stock decline of about 15% this year. Earlier this month, the shares closed at the lowest level since 2016. IFF shares had been little changed in 2019 before Monday’s decline.For DuPont, the agreement extends a dramatic overhaul of the company’s portfolio as it looks to salvage shareholder value in the face of the U.S.-China trade war that has crimped growth.DuPont has been transforming itself following the breakup of DowDuPont, the chemical giant created in a 2017 megadeal. That colossus has now split into three, as the Dow division was spun off earlier this year followed by the agriculture business, now called Corteva Inc.DuPont Is Said to Explore Divestiture of Transportation Unit. The transaction is structured as a Reverse Morris Trust, reflecting the desire of DuPont’s Breen and Chief Executive Officer Marc Doyle for a tax-efficient option to reward shareholders after the nutrition business had wallowed within the diversified company.DuPont will receive a one-time cash payment of $7.3 billion once the deal is completed, expected in the first quarter of 2021. IFF CEO Andreas Fibig will be chairman and CEO of the new company, with Breen as the lead independent director starting in June 2021. The board will have 13 directors, including seven from IFF, until 2022, when the total drops to an evenly split 12.IFF had competition from Kerry Group, the milk and cheese producer that has long wanted to expand in healthy bacteria strains, ingredients found in dietary supplements, cheese and bakery products, and nutritional products that claim to have some sort of role in assisting in disease treatment or prevention. IFF emerged as a strong contender to win the deal last week, people familiar with the talks said at the time.Kerry shares fell 2.7% to 109.80 euros in Dublin trading.The food-flavoring industry is consolidating as growth slows and flavor makers contend with volatile raw-materials prices. The Frutarom transaction is still absorbing IFF management time and has increased leverage. Switzerland-based Givaudan paid $1.6 billion for Naturex in 2018, while German rival Symrise AG has also been snapping up companies in recent years.The DuPont purchase would make “strategic sense, allowing IFF to offer a more complete product suite to a broader customer base,” according to Mark Astrachan, an analyst at Stifel, who said last week the deal would make it the largest global specialty ingredients company.However, Seaport Global Securities analyst Brett Hundley said last week that an IFF deal would be “fraught with risk,” noting that the combined company would have a large pro-forma debt load of more than $12.5 billion.On a pro forma basis for 2019, the new company would have revenue of $11 billion for 2019 and $2.6 billion in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The companies expect more than $300 million in cost savings by the third year after closing.Both companies reiterated their financial guidance for 2019.The deal is subject to approval from IFF shareholders. IFF has already secured the support of its biggest shareholder, 19% holder Winder Investment Pte Ltd., the companies said in the statement.Greenhill & Co. and Morgan Stanley served as IFF’s financial advisers, with Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP as legal counsel. DuPont’s financial advisers were Credit Suisse and Evercore, with legal counsel from Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP.
December 15, 2019;Boeing Without 737s Is Like Coke Without Soda;Imagine if Toyota Motor Corp. stopped making Corollas, or Coca-Cola Co. stopped making Diet Coke, or McDonald’s Corp. stopped serving Big Macs.That’s the best way of looking at reports that Boeing Co. is considering halting production of its troubled 737 Max single-aisle jet. Making and servicing commercial airplanes accounts for about 80% of Boeing’s operating income, and the 737 series in turn accounts for about 70% of commercial deliveries. A Boeing that’s not making 737s is shutting down close to half its business.The company could disclose a decision as early as Monday on whether to further cut production levels or halt the line altogether, the Wall Street Journal reported Sunday, citing people familiar with the matter. Pausing production is increasingly seen as the most viable option, the people were quoted as saying.You might be surprised that Boeing has been making the 737 Max at all since the global fleet was grounded back in March — but an aerospace production line is more like a perpetual motion machine than something you can switch on and off with a click of the fingers.On one hand, there’s the question of what to do with Boeing’s workforce and idled facilities. On the other, there’s its vast network of suppliers, which have been pushed hard in recent years to deliver parts more cheaply and quickly than ever before, and as a result have a particularly thin safety cushion if orders dry up.That’s meant keeping production going has been a better option than stopping the lines altogether, albeit at a reduced rate of 42 a month rather than the 57 a month that were planned for this point. Finished 737s have been stacking up in parking lots like the one outside Boeing’s Renton plant. Right now, there’s in the region of 400 such planes waiting for regulators to give the go-ahead to start flying again, worth about $50 billion at list prices.There’s still vast uncertainty about when the stalemate will end. Federal Aviation Administration head Steve Dickson took the planemaker to task in an unusually public dressing-down Thursday, saying its timetable for bringing the aircraft back into service looked “not realistic” and was “designed to force FAA into taking quicker action.”American Airlines Group Inc. last week took the Max out of its schedules through early April. Flights could stay grounded into May in Europe, where the air safety regulator is carrying out its own checks, Ryanair Holdings Plc said last week. The airline is the 737’s biggest European customer.Put that way, it starts to become clearer why at some point Boeing has to pull the plug. It costs the company hard cash to make each plane, but it’s not collecting anything from customers until regulators give the say-so to resume deliveries. Operating cash flow in the third quarter hit minus $2.42 billion, the worst result on that measure in a generation and below the weakest performance during the 2008 financial crisis.“At some point you decide you can’t keep pouring money into building airplanes,” said Scott Hamilton, managing director of aerospace consultancy Leeham Co. “Even Boeing with all its financial resources, at some point just has to stop the bleeding.”Even halting production won’t mean the end of the 737 Max. Airlines don’t want to find Airbus SE turning into a monopoly supplier of single-aisle jets in the mold of the 737 and A320. Such planes are the workhorses of medium-haul, lower-cost routes where they make most of their money. As a result, carriers want the Max to succeed as much as Boeing does.In theory, Boeing could try to make up numbers with the previous 737 NG models while going back to the drawing board with the Max, but production of that plane has already stopped and it can’t compete economically with the A320neo now streaming off Airbus production lines. As a result, Boeing and the aviation industry as a whole have no option but to keep pushing forward.That doesn’t mean the road ahead will be easy. The longer the delays go on, the more Boeing loses the trust of passengers and by extension its customers, the airlines. That will eventually show up in a harder bargain driven over future aircraft orders, while suppliers that have helped to fatten Boeing’s margins at the expense of their own in recent years may find an opportunity to fight back.Valuation of aerospace companies tends to be very long term, and Boeing is still priced well above Airbus on most metrics. Should the current turbulence persist, don’t be surprised to see that premium start to stall.
December 24, 2019;Uber’s Travis Kalanick to Leave Board to Focus on New Business;Uber Technologies Inc.’s former Chief Executive Officer Travis Kalanick is stepping down from the board, severing his last ties to the company he co-founded a decade ago and helped become one of the world’s most valuable, and controversial, startups.Kalanick, 43, has sold all of his remaining shares in the ride-hailing giant and plans to focus on his new business and philanthropic endeavors.Along with co-founder Garrett Camp, Kalanick started Uber in 2009, building the company up from an experimental black car service in San Francisco to a global transportation and logistics company, offering food delivery, freight shipping, helicopter rides and ushering in a new era of work. But he was ousted as CEO in June 2017 following months of chaos and controversy. Detractors pointed to his aggressive and sometimes reckless management style as breeding a toxic workplace hostile to women and overseeing morally questionable company programs including some that intentionally deceived regulators and law enforcement agencies and spied on riders.“Uber has been a part of my life for the past 10 years,” Kalanick said in a statement Tuesday. “At the close of the decade, and with the company now public, it seems like the right moment for me to focus on my current business and philanthropic pursuits.”For the past year, Kalanick has been building a new startup: CloudKitchens. The real estate company offers fully outfitted kitchens to restaurants that need more space to fulfill orders from take-out food services like DoorDash and UberEats. Along with using his own funds, Kalanick also raised $400 million from Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund.Following Kalanick’s departure as CEO, the board replaced him with Dara Khosrowshahi, a former executive of Expedia Inc., who has worked to rebuild the company’s reputation and promise to investors. Since its initial public offering in May – one of the worst IPOs this year -- Uber shares have cratered by more than 30%. They were up 1% at 12:04 p.m. in New York.With Kalanick fully separated from Uber now, Wedbush Securities analysts said it could help the stock, since his continued presence on the board was a “distraction.”“With ripping the band-aid off and Travis leaving stage left on the board, we believe now it’s about Dara & Co. taking Uber in the right direction for 2020 and beyond after a rough road so far,” wrote Wedbush analysts Ygal Arounian and Dan Ives, adding that the massive sell-off of shares following the Nov. 6 lockup expiry has also hurt the stock price.Kalanick has been steadily unloading his Uber shares in the past few weeks. He sold the remaining 5.8 million shares before resigning from the board Monday night, a spokeswoman said, for a grand haul of almost $3 billion, according to calculations by Bloomberg. Before the lockup expired, Kalanick held a 6% stake in Uber, which made him the firm’s largest individual shareholder. Softbank Group Corp. and Benchmark Capital are the company’s two largest institutional shareholders.Such a selldown is unusual among prominent tech tycoons. Facebook Inc.’s Mark Zuckerberg and Amazon.com Inc.’s Jeff Bezos still own sizeable stakes in their companies. Still, neither of them were ousted by a boardroom coup. And Kalanick’s sales mean he has plenty of financial firepower for his other projects. He created a fund called 10100 in March 2018, saying in a tweet it would focus on his “passions, investments, ideas and big bets.” The fund will handle Kalanick’s for-profit investments and philanthropy and plans to invest in real estate, e-commerce and emerging innovation in China and India, according to its website.“Very few entrepreneurs have built something as profound as Travis Kalanick did with Uber,” Khosrowshahi said. “I’m enormously grateful for Travis’s vision and tenacity while building Uber, and for his expertise as a board member. Everyone at Uber wishes him all the best.”Kalanick’s departure from Uber’s board will be effective Dec. 31, according to a statement Tuesday. Uber’s 12-person board has steadily shrunk since the company went public in May and now will have four openings.
December 5, 2019;Share of U.S. Small Businesses Planning Higher Pay Nears Record;As a tight labor market makes filling positions more difficult, 26% of U.S. small-business owners plan to increase pay in coming months, the most since a record in 1989, according to a National Federation of Independent Business report out Thursday.The November survey showed finding qualified workers remains the biggest challenge for respondents. Of those trying to hire, 88% reported “few or no qualified applicants for the job.” Still, 21% of companies have plans to add to payrolls, the most since July.But increasing wages has its consequences for business owners. Ten percent said labor costs were the biggest problem, 1 percentage point below the all-time high reached in September.The group’s figures surface a day before the Labor Department’s jobs report, which is projected to show employers added 184,000 workers in November after 128,000 a month earlier.The NFIB’s survey reflects 500 responses of a random sample of 10,000 small-business owners.
December 16, 2019;A Big Law Firm Aims to (Partly) Automate Big Law;The California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), passed in 2018 and set to take effect on Jan. 1, will require an estimated 500,000 companies with annual revenue of more than $25 million to account for the personal information they’ve filed away about Californians and delete it upon request. All told, the law’s adoption will cost those companies about $55 billion in legal fees, employee training, and other compliance measures, according to an impact assessment prepared for the California attorney general’s office by Berkeley Economic Advising and Research, a consulting firm. That leaves plenty of room for savings, says Kimball Parker, especially if you can do the legal work with far fewer lawyers.Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati is the only one of the top 50 U.S. law firms with an office in the small city of Lehi, Utah. There, Parker is the president of the firm’s year-old subsidiary, SixFifty, which aims to deliver the quality of Wilson Sonsini’s top legal minds via software. His team of 15 has taken an early lead in the nascent market for legal automation by focusing on the data-privacy law, an issue key to its parent’s core Silicon Valley interests.Parker’s team is pitching clients a suite of automation software to help them comply with the new law. Its document program fills out CCPA-required paperwork with a series of prompts written by Wilson Sonsini’s flesh-and-blood lawyers. Its training program will look familiar to anyone who’s had to complete electronic human resources training sessions; clients can track their workers’ progress remotely. And a third piece of software creates a digital pipeline where companies can manage requests to delete personal data. All told, the services will cost a typical small business $20,000 to $30,000 a year, Parker says, plus a premium for regular updates. “We really wanted to price it so that the funeral parlor in Fresno could afford it and that it would provide significant value for a big public company as well,” he says.The other options on the market tend to require companies to combine traditional legal counsel with software that isn’t ready to use off the shelf, says Austin Baird, an in-house lawyer at Vivint Solar Inc., which makes and installs solar panels for a great many Californians. Baird became one of SixFifty’s first customers in June, won over by the company’s system for handling data requests. (He says Vivint may need to respond to as many as 30 million of them.) “We ultimately decided it was just easier to rely on SixFifty for everything,” he says, and the savings have been significant.Competing on price is also unusual for big law firms such as Wilson Sonsini, whose high fees are a sign of prestige and can be a selling point. That’s one reason hourly rates now top $1,500 at brand-name firms, where some partners make as much as $10 million a year in guaranteed salaries alone. But billions of dollars of venture capital and private equity investment have flooded the legal industry in recent years—broad bets that technology will be able to handle an ever-wider range of legal tasks and reduce the need for paralegals and associates. Wilson Sonsini is the only major U.S. law firm making a serious bid to bridge the divide by automating its own associates’ work.The firm is well-placed to venture into emerging legal technology. In 1980 it helped take Apple public. In 2004 it did the same for Google. More recently it has represented Lyft Inc. during its initial public offering preparations and advised LinkedIn on selling itself to Microsoft Corp. Parker, a former litigator at rival firm Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan, who helped develop document automation software in collaboration with Brigham Young University, is still struggling a bit with the basics of wrangling a sales team. “What I didn’t realize is there is actually a mechanism and skill set to sales that has nothing to do with demo-ing the product,” he says. “Like, most of sales is following up consistently but in a way that isn’t annoying.”The California compliance software went on sale in July; Parker says he expects it to bring in $4 million by the end of 2019. That’s roughly the amount of revenue that four of Wilson Sonsini’s 770 lawyers generated for the firm last year. But the SixFifty team is a lot cheaper, with a total 2019 budget of about $2 million, the equivalent of about 10 first-year associates’ starting salaries.Parker’s efforts are likely to face serious skepticism even from his colleagues, as well as at rival firms, says Dan Linna, a law professor at Northwestern University who’s studied innovation in the industry. But he says some degree of automation is inevitable, and Wilson Sonsini should continue to invest in SixFifty rather than relegate it to the role of a marketing tool.SixFifty says it plans to release similar software next year that can help clients comply with a broader range of data security standards. “Those tools are really just a delivery device for the human expertise,” Parker says, adding that it’s easy to imagine them applying to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, for example. “We will just deploy those tools over and over again until, I don’t know, until the cows come home.”
December 25, 2019;Daiwa to Expand Real Estate Trust Business as Low Rates Persist;Daiwa Securities Group Inc. is expanding its real estate investment trust business as low interest rates continue to drive investors into domestic property funds.Japan’s second-biggest brokerage is preparing to start a new private-placement REIT and considering having existing trusts issue new shares to raise money for expansion, said Toshio Fukushima, president of its Daiwa Real Estate Asset Management Co. unit.Fukushima said he expects the combined assets of real estate investment trusts under his firm’s management will increase to more than 1 trillion yen ($9.1 billion) next year from around 900 billion yen as of September. The company currently oversees five REITs.“We are looking to increase our assets for the time being because it is quite possible that more money is waiting to flow into the market,” Fukushima said in an interview. Buying REITs from other companies is one option to bolster assets, he said, while noting that decisions involving acquisitions are up to the parent company.Japan’s exchange-traded REITs are hovering near 12-year highs as institutional investors seek returns to make up for negative yields on government bonds. Banks have extended a record 80 trillion yen in loans to the real estate sector, central bank figures show, as office vacancies shrink and property prices rise.Daiwa Real Estate Asset plans to merge two of the five REITs – Japan Rental Housing Investments Inc. and Nippon Healthcare Investment Corp. – in April next year as part of efforts to strengthen its business, according to statements last month.
December 23, 2019;U.S. Business-Equipment Orders Tame as Investment Downshifts;Orders for U.S. capital equipment barely increased in November, consistent with a downshift in corporate investment throughout the year that’s weighed on economic growth.Bookings for non-military capital goods excluding aircraft -- a proxy for business investment -- rose 0.1%, matching projections, after a 1.1% jump in October that followed consecutive monthly declines, according to Commerce Department figures issued Monday.Orders for all durable goods, or items meant to last at least three years, unexpectedly dropped 2%, reflecting a slump in military aircraft and a drop in civilian planes.Combined with a decrease in core shipments, the figures highlight a lack of appetite for capital expenditures, with profit growth cooling and business sentiment still subdued amid global demand concerns. Despite a thawing in the U.S.- China trade war after this month’s phase-one agreement, a more sweeping deal that could spark greater investment and re- charge world growth prospects is a bigger challenge.Other recent reports have showed manufacturing, while no longer suffering larger setbacks, remains weak. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s factory index dropped in December to a six-month low, while the New York Fed’s manufacturing gauge barely expanded.The headline durable-goods figure was pressured by a decline in orders of commercial aircraft despite Boeing Co. reporting earlier this month that it received 63 orders in November compared with just 10 in October. Orders for motor vehicles and parts rebounded, likely reflecting the effects of the end of the auto workers’ strike at General Motors Co.Shipments of non-defense capital goods excluding aircraft -- a measure used in gross domestic product calculations -- fell 0.3% after a 0.7% increase. The report showed core business- equipment shipments fell 2.9% on a three-month annualized basis through November.Excluding transportation equipment, which tends to be volatile, durable-goods orders were little changed after a 0.3% gain. Bookings for military hardware plunged 35.6%, the most since February 2017, while defense aircraft orders slid 72.7%.Durable goods inventories expanded 0.4% for a second month.
December 11, 2019;WeWork Is in Talks to Sell Business It Bought 8 Months Ago;WeWork is in talks to sell Managed by Q Inc., a business it owned for about eight months, according to people familiar with the matter. The deal may help the troubled office-sharing company raise cash and refocus on its main business.A group of investors and executives, including Managed by Q co-founder and former Chairman Dan Teran, is trying to buy the business back from WeWork, the people said. Discussions are progressing and WeWork is actively pursuing a resolution, said the people, who asked not to be identified talking about private negotiations.Earlier this year, WeWork acquired Managed by Q -- which offers technology to help companies manage workplace tasks and services -- with the goal of combining the smaller outfit’s expertise with its own global scale to “deliver an unprecedented and seamless office experience for growing companies everywhere.”An email sent to WeWork seeking comment was not immediately returned.Teran spoke on a panel at the SALT conference in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday and moderator Omeed Malik, CEO of merchant bank Farvahar Partners, asked about Teran’s plans.“I’m actively working to buy back my company,” he said during a live stream from the conference. After selling for a reported $220 million, Teran said he thought he was done raising capital for Managed by Q. “And here I am six months later doing it again,” he added.The day before, Teran was at another event in Abu Dhabi, run by tech and venture capital group Hub71, talking with investors.Teran also said on Wednesday’s panel that he plans to bring his management team with him to help run Managed by Q as a standalone business again.The value of the deal under discussion could not be ascertained. Managed by Q was valued at $249 million in a financing round in January, according to a TechCrunch report that cited PitchBook data.WeWork bought or backed several startups in recent years during a growth binge. That expansionary effort contributed to its billions of dollars in losses, and after an aborted initial public offering earlier this year, some of those deals may be unwound.WeWork has turned to major investor SoftBank Group Corp. for a rescue package to keep it going, part of which will see the company ditch side businesses and focus on making its core operations sustainable.WeWork listed several investments and subsidiaries, including The Wing, Meetup, SpaceIQ, Teem and Wavegarden, as potential divestments in an October investor presentation. The office-sharing company is also cutting thousands of jobs as it tries to generate positive cash flow by 2023.









