June 8, 2020;AstraZeneca Eyes Gilead in Big Pharma’s Move Beyond Covid;Two drugmakers behind the industry’s most prominent responses to the Covid-19 pandemic are looking into the possibility of a combined future as economies emerge from lockdowns.
June 9, 2020;Covid-19 Cases Pass 7.1 Million as Lockdowns Prevent Half a Billion More;Lockdowns and other public-health measures may have prevented about half a billion coronavirus infections in six countries, including China and the U.S., according to an analysis of the impact of health policies published Monday in the journal Nature. Global cases now exceed 7.1 million with over 406,000 deaths. Annmarie Hordern reports on "Bloomberg Markets: European Open."
June 8, 2020;The Future of Travel in the Covid Era;The shock from the stagnant travel industry, which accounts for 10% of the global economy, can ripple to the remotest corners of the world. Each time a person takes a trip, it sets off a domino effect of consumption that directs dollars to airlines, hoteliers, restaurateurs, taxi drivers, artisans, tour guides, and shopkeepers, to name a few. In all, the tourism industry employs 300 million people; especially in developing countries, these jobs can represent pathways out of poverty and opportuni
June 8, 2020;Vietnam’s Richest Man Has a Plan to Save the Virus-Stricken World;The coronavirus pandemic largely leapfrogged Vietnam—the country has reported just 332 cases and no deaths—but from his sprawling headquarters in Hanoi, billionaire Pham Nhat Vuong could see a need beyond the border. In April, the country’s richest man surveyed his cradle-to-grave conglomerate and made a decision. He was getting into ventilators.
June 8, 2020;Vietnam’s Richest Man Has a Plan to Save the Virus-Stricken World;Vuong believes his company, Vingroup JSC, can do it faster and for less money. Using an open-source design from device maker Medtronic Plc, Vingroup submitted a working ventilator for regulator approval in mid-April. While the company waits for Vietnam’s regulators to give the go-ahead, ventilators are rolling off the assembly line.
June 8, 2020;Vietnam’s Richest Man Has a Plan to Save the Virus-Stricken World;Vingroup’s ventilators cost around $7,000 in Vietnam, 30% less than Medtronic’s own model. The company also says it could produce as many as 55,000 a month as soon as the government approves them and plans to export them wherever there’s demand. Vingroup says it’ll donate several thousand to Ukraine and Russia, where Vuong has long-standing business ties.
June 8, 2020;Vietnam’s Richest Man Has a Plan to Save the Virus-Stricken World;Now, as the government gives away cases of made-in-Vietnam face masks to virus-hit countries overseas, Vuong is making ventilators part of an even more ambitious global campaign: selling Vietnamese cars to the world. In December, he announced that VinFast, the conglomerate’s automotive group, would develop an electric vehicle and export it to the U.S. by 2021. Vuong is pledging $2 billion of his own fortune to make the improbable feat happen.
June 8, 2020;Vietnam’s Richest Man Has a Plan to Save the Virus-Stricken World;Whether Americans would consider a Vietnamese car remains an open question. Ventilators, on the other hand, are a product the virus-stricken world can’t turn down. “The lesson we learn from a crisis is that there will always be lots of opportunities,” said Vuong. “We have to make the right choices and act fast.”
June 8, 2020;Covid-19 May Spark Zoom Corporate Merger Revival;The global pandemic is giving businesses and buyout shops plenty of reasons to get back to dealmaking. How they do it will just require a bit more ingenuity. Whatever the case, the global pandemic is giving businesses plenty of reasons to get back to dealmaking. Yes, even social distancing may draw some companies closer together. How they do it will just require a bit more ingenuity in a post-handshake, post-Covid-19 world.M&A globally is down 50% this year after the coronavirus quite literally brought the economy to a halt. But stay-at-home orders have been lifting across Asia, Europe and the U.S. And now that New York City — the unofficial headquarters of the M&A market — is beginning to reopen, deals that were in the works previously may pick up where they left off. Those are “low-hanging fruit” for bankers to try to get done, said Eric Becker, who manages the AltShares Merger Arbitrage ETF at Water Island Capital, a firm with $2.5 billion under management. “Those were situations where they were still able to hit the golf course and have the handshakes and look at each other face to face.”But then there are deals that make all the more sense because of the crisis. Not only could more companies use videoconferencing tools to do M&A, other tech-affiliated companies could copy Verizon by acquiring a service like BlueJeans to round out their business software offerings. That’s if working from home is going to be more common even after Covid-19 gets under control. And for deals in which physical assets and property are key, investors have cited the prospect of drones being used to conduct due diligence and avoid unnecessary travel and virus risks. Whether that’s a practical solution remains to be seen.  Uber Technologies Inc. is trying to acquire Grubhub Inc. to consolidate the market for food-delivery services as demand surges. Even as restaurants reopen, diners in heavily populated areas may still be reluctant to eat out. Becker also cited an ongoing trend of regional bank acquisitions, as smaller banks require better online capabilities and larger banks seek a deeper community presence.
June 8, 2020;Crash Lesson No. 1? Don't Ignore the Fed's Gusher;In the context of such an enormous gush of liquidity it is clear at an intellectual level that there was immense pressure on share prices to rise. That doesn’t make this surge any easier to process at a personal level, and it doesn’t banish the fear that it cannot be sustained once the market has to confront underlying economic and corporate fundamentals. The same applies in the terrible event that human beings put their immune system into a second great contest with the novel coronavirus. But as it stands, the last leg of the rally over the past week has widened the market’s advance in just the way we would expect if there were a sustained rally predicated on a belief in economic growth ahead. The clearest evidence comes from the performance of companies with the weakest balance sheets, compared with those with the strongest. The sell-off earlier this year was particularly brutal for companies with weak balance sheets, reflecting the belief that over-leveraged companies wouldn’t be able to survive the loss of revenues and profits from the Covid-19 lockdowns. 
June 8, 2020;How Covid Upended 20 Million Lives in India’s Finance Hub;A megapolis of about 20 million, few cities face the reckoning around labor and life that Mumbai must now contend with. When authorities resumed some public transport on Monday, television channels showed dozens of people rushing to board a bus, a sign of how desperate residents are to return to their livelihoods even as the city remains India’s Covid-19 epicenter.Mujawar is one of millions of people who lost their jobs in recent months, threatening to widen what was already a vast disparity between lifestyles in the city. Mumbaikar Mukesh Ambani, Asia’s richest man, has negotiated billions of dollars in investment despite the lockdown, holding Zoom calls to haggle out details. Yet, families like the Mujawars typically access the internet only through screens of the cheapest China-built phones.Now most of the 5,000-strong force has returned to their villages, says Sawant, who is also secretary at the Mumbai Dabbawala Association. His colleagues have decided they won’t work till Diwali -- India’s main holiday that takes place in November this year -- because their business involves contact with dozens of people, increasing the risk of contagion to themselves and others.Bollywood -- as Mumbai’s film industry is called -- came to a virtual standstill and though authorities have allowed some work to resume with strict restrictions, producers are moving film-shoots to less infected parts of the country. But Bennis tries to stay optimistic.
June 8, 2020;Virus Spreaders Who Never Show Symptoms Are Rare, WHO Says;Although the health organization had said as far back as February that it did not see asymptomatic cases as a major cause of viral spread, Van Kerkhove’s remark at a press conference Monday revived controversy over coronavirus transmission routes. Uncertainty over the issue has hindered nations’ efforts to re-open battered economies, with the New England Journal of Medicine previously warning that transmission of SARS-CoV-2 by seemingly healthy people is “the Achilles’ heel of Covid-19 pandemic control.”Some of the confusion lies in the distinction between the roles played by truly asymptomatic people and those who are merely pre-symptomatic -- and later go on to become ill -- in spreading the disease."Comprehensive studies on transmission from asymptomatic individuals are difficult to conduct, but the available evidence from contact tracing reported by member states suggests that asymptomatically-infected individuals are much less likely to transmit the virus than those who develop symptoms,” the WHO said in guidance on the use of face masks that it issued last week. The group has scheduled a briefing Tuesday to address the issue.Countries across the globe have been wary of relaxing social-distancing guidelines and rigid travel restrictions, fearing that people without symptoms could spread the Covid-19 pathogen unchecked throughout communities.Because identifying asymptomatic cases is so difficult, the U.S. and other nations have struggled to implement adequate testing to gauge how widespread the disease has become. The Chinese city of Wuhan recently completed the testing of its entire population of 11 million in an effort to identify cases to avoid a resurgence of infections.
June 7, 2020;Avenatti Accused of Violating Covid Release by Computer Use;Celebrity lawyer Michael Avenatti violated the terms of his temporary release from jail during the pandemic by using a computer to write his own court filings, according to federal prosecutors who charged him last year with defrauding clients and submitting false tax returns.
June 7, 2020;Airbnb Joins Vacation-Rental Sites Seeing Surge in Demand;Airbnb saw more nights booked for U.S. listings between May 17 and June 3 than the same period in 2019, and a similar boost in domestic travel globally. The San Francisco-based home-share company is seeing an increase in demand for domestic bookings in countries from Germany to Portugal, South Korea, New Zealand and more. Other companies, including Expedia Group Inc.’s Vrbo and Booking Holdings Inc. are also seeing a jump in domestic vacation-rental reservations.Still, any rebound is coming from a very low base. The travel sector was gutted by the Covid-19 pandemic. Online travel agencies struggled to withstand unprecedented cancellations and air travel passenger traffic that fell 95%. Airbnb and Tripadvisor Inc. cut a quarter of their workforces and Chesky said last month that he expects revenue this year to be half of 2019’s level. Booking was forced to apply for government aid. In an annual shareholder report last week, Booking CEO Glenn Fogel said the pandemic would impact global travel more than the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the SARS epidemic and the 2008 financial crisis combined.The unexpected speed of the comeback has kept Airbnb’s plans for a 2020 public market debut afloat. Chesky had originally planned to file paperwork for an offering March 31, but was waylaid by the pandemic-related market turmoil that led to speculation the listing would be shelved until next year. However, Chesky says it’s still an option. “We’re not ruling out going public this year and we’re not committing to it,” he said. Airbnb was valued at $31 billion in its most recent private fund-raising round, though recent debt issuance to shore up its finances have significantly reduced that valuation.Demand for air travel is also showing some early signs of life after all but collapsing. Daily passenger numbers in the U.S. climbed to 391,882 on June 4, the highest since March 22, according to the Transportation Security Administration. But the average daily total over the past seven days was still 87% less than during the same period a year ago. American Airlines Group Inc. said it would boost July flights 74% compared with this month, though the number of flights in July will be about 40% of capacity a year earlier, compared with 30% in June, the airline said Thursday.“It’s going to be awhile before people start crossing borders, getting into planes or traveling for business,” Chesky said. The big question on his mind now, as he weighs taking his startup public, is whether the spike in recent bookings turns into a sustainable trend. “The long-term question is what does it look like in a year or five years and that’s really anyone’s guess,” he said. Chesky won’t be celebrating until the market stabilizes. “I had a rule that even in our darkest of hours I wouldn’t get too low because that’s just a moment in time,” he said. “And if I can’t get too low, then I can’t get too up.
June 8, 2020;Most Ambitious African Program to Halt Virus Is Floundering;Africa’s biggest program to halt the coronavirus is being thwarted by a global shortage of tests and a lack of capacity to process those that have been administered.South Africa in March unveiled plans to test 30,000 people a day, only weeks after the first infection was diagnosed. Today, with more than 940,000 tests completed and 12 million people screened, its program is by far the most comprehensive on the continent. But some 80,000 tests haven’t been processed and results can take between five to 14 days, making it impossible to isolate those who are infected and trace their contacts.Leading epidemiologists are now calling on the government to change its strategy of trying to find infections in communities and instead focus on testing health-care workers and people who’ve been hospitalized. The Western Cape province, which is the worst affected, is already doing that.The current strategy “would have been the right one if we could have accelerated and expanded the testing,” said Marc Mendelson, head of the division of infectious diseases & HIV medicine at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town. “That just wasn’t possible, we lost that battle.”South Africa has more than 50,000 cases and 1,080 deaths. Even though half of those who tested positive have recovered, new cases are rising rapidly, reaching an average of 2,229 a day in the past week.The National Health Laboratory Service has, in a presentation, detailed challenges ranging from an inadequate supply of tests to its own limitations in processing those that have been carried out. It declined to comment further, as did the Department of Health.“A major challenge is the speed at which the epidemic is evolving, putting enormous pressure on the response to adapt rapidly, especially in the face of limited information as well as constrained capacity and resources,” said Salim Abdool Karim, the chairman of the Ministerial Advisory Committee on the outbreak, in a May 31 editorial for Johannesburg’s Sunday Times.South Africa should discard all unprocessed tests that are more than a few days old and immediately focus on testing hospital admissions and health workers, according to Shabir Madhi, professor of vaccinology and director of the MRC Respiratory and Meningeal Pathogens Research Unit at Johannesburg’s University of the Witwatersrand. The status of those who’ve been hospitalized needs to be known quickly or risks rise that they don’t get the correct treatment and die, he said.Testing capability with a 24-hour turnaround is about 20,000 tests a day, Madhi said.“Anything more than that fuels the backlog,” he said. “Using the testing strategy in the community to try to control the rates of spread of the virus is no longer an option for us.”
June 7, 2020;U.K. Kicks Off Quarantine That Will Further Slam Airlines；The U.K. is pressing ahead with a two-week quarantine on international arrivals, a move British Airways and others say will wipe out tourism over the crucial summer season and destroy any chance of a quick recovery from a virus-induced slump.BA, along with EasyJet Plc and Ryanair Holdings Plc, have threatened to sue the government over the policy, which took effect Monday, saying the restrictions will be ineffective at curtailing Covid-19 while threatening thousands of jobs. The carriers fear the move will make lockdown-weary customers postpone bookings just as they add capacity.“Even those people who would have thought about going away on holiday in July or August are now holding off from making bookings since nobody really knows how long the rules will last,” said John Strickland, director of JLS Consulting in London, who has held senior positions at BA and KLM. “Being locked down at home for two weeks after a holiday is something that a lot of people can’t really afford to do.”With virus infection levels on the decline in most European countries, governments have been easing travel restrictions, and beaches are opening in places like Greece, Spain and Portugal. Airlines are trying to salvage the summer season when tens of millions of people generally take their vacation. The U.K. is one of the world’s top 10 tourist destinations and attracted more than 35 million visitors last year, spending more than $50 billion.The quarantine would torpedo BA’s plans to resume about 40% of its scheduled flights in July and force it to continue burning 20 million pounds ($25 million) a day, the carrier said. EasyJet is planning to resume some scheduled flights from June 15, while Ryanair plans to restart flying July 1.London Heathrow may need to cut one-third of its 7,000 employees if the U.K. government doesn’t indicate soon when it plans to relax the quarantine rule, the airport’s chief executive officer, John Holland-Kaye, said in a CityA.M. podcast on Monday. Europe’s busiest hub has already eliminated a third of operating costs, he said.In a “pre-action” letter to the Home Office, IAG SA, the owner of BA, wrote that the quarantine is stricter than the one applied to people infected with Covid-19, and exemptions for people living in Ireland and workers who commute from France and Germany will make it ineffective. Ryanair and EasyJet also signed the letter.“In our view, the government has failed to identify a valid justification for the blanket nature of the regulations, more especially given the extremely severe nature of the self-isolation provisions that apply,” it said.The Home Office declined to comment on the potential legal action, but Home Secretary Priti Patel defended the 14-day quarantine measure, saying it’s a key part of the U.K.’s strategy to avoid a second wave of infections that could overwhelm the health-care system and further devastate the economy.“We all want to return to normal as quickly as possible, but this cannot be at the expense of lives,” she said in a statement.James Slack, a spokesman for Prime Minister Boris Johnson, said he expected “the vast majority” of people to comply with the quarantine measures. Talks about so-called air bridges are ongoing, he said, referring to the idea of awarding exemptions to specific destinations with low coronavirus infection rates.Britain has recorded 40,542 deaths, 10% of the global total, though the number of cases and fatalities is gradually declining, with 77 deaths reported on Sunday.Airline stocks extended last week’s rally despite the start of the quarantine. IAG gained 5.6% and EasyJet rose 4.8% as of 1:28 p.m. in London, while Ryanair was little changed in Dublin.Patel announced the quarantine plan on May 22, just as the U.K. began to ease domestic lockdown measures, and it was met with opposition from the industry and lawmakers in Johnson’s own Conservative Party, who warned it would stifle economic recovery by signaling Britain is not “open for business.”More than 500 tourism and hospitality companies, with combined sales of 10 billion pounds, have come together under the title “Quash Quarantine” and are deciding how best to combat the rules. They are watching the airlines’ legal action “with keen interest,” according to leader George Morgan-Grenville, CEO of tour operator Red Savannah.“What it’s going to do is untold devastation, not just to the airlines, but to British tourism, the thousands of hotels, the thousands of visitor attractions, restaurants,” Ryanair CEO Michael O’Leary said in a BBC Radio interview Monday. “We’re facing thousands of job losses because of a stupid, ineffective quarantine,”Jacques Gounon, president of Channel Tunnel operator Getlink SE, also wrote to Johnson on Saturday to complain the U.K. had failed to consult on the new rules or give enough notice of them being introduced. They put an unreasonable bureaucratic burden on staff and could pose a “serious risk” to the U.K.-France link’s efficiency, he wrote.Under the new rules, travelers will have to give an address where they will be self-isolating before departing for Britain and foreign nationals who refuse to say where they’ll be staying could be refused entry. Officials will conduct spot checks to ensure compliance, and can impose 1,000-pound fines on people found breaking the rules.
June 4, 2020；Apple Offering Covid-19 Testing to Staff Returning to Offices；Apple Inc. employees heading back to work at the company’s headquarters in Silicon Valley will face new realities in the Covid-19 era, such as optional testing for the virus, closed kitchens and a requirement to wear masks.Apple began bringing some workers in to the main Apple Park office in May, including some hardware and software engineers. When they arrive, they’ll have the option of taking a nasal-swab test to check for the virus, according to people familiar with the process. Temperature checks are required.As the building gradually reopens, some employees are working from the Apple campus only a few days a week. Apple is also limiting the number of people allowed in confined spaces at its offices. For example, as few as two are permitted in elevators at the same time, which normally would fit as many as 10 employees. The company has also closed many break-room kitchens and has posted signs asking employees to wear masks.The Apple campus in Cupertino, California, has several open floor work areas where staff members are used to working in close proximity, but the company will need to make changes to that layout in order to bring back the rest of its workforce. An Apple spokesman declined to comment.In a sign of a return to normalcy, some members of the company’s executive team have returned to the main campus instead of working from home. Deirdre O’Brien, Apple’s head of retail and human resources, for example, sent her most recent video update to staff from Apple Park.Many large U.S. corporations are rethinking how to get thousands of employees safely back to work before a vaccine is widely available. Testing is seen as one way to help control the spread of the disease, as is limiting the number of people in spaces and wearing masks.Some Silicon Valley rivals, including Facebook Inc., recently told staff they won’t be offering testing in the near future, though the company has extended remote work through the end of the year, except for those developing critical hardware, which will return sooner. Amazon.com Inc. is offering tests to workers at some warehouses, while employees at the company’s Seattle headquarters expect testing to be done when staff returns in early October.Facebook has also said it would “aggressively” hire remote workers and that as much as half of its staff could eventually be remote. But Apple has long prioritized in-person meetings and hands-on product development, and its central business is hardware, which is less conducive to off-site work.Still, the company has taken the pandemic seriously and acted quickly to protect its staff and the public, shuttering all of its retail stores at different points this year to help curb the spread of the virus. It has since reopened more than half of its stores globally.
June 8, 2020;Bank of America’s AI Robot Learns 60,000 Ways to Talk About the Coronavirus;When it came to Covid-19, Bank of America Corp.’s virtual assistant Erica had a steep learning curve.The artificial-intelligence program has come to recognize 60,000 coronavirus-related terms as customers seek to manage their cash flow, increase savings and watch their spending during the pandemic. David Tyrie, head of digital banking, sat down with a team in March to teach the app a couple hundred virus-related words and phrases. Since then, use of Erica on Bank of America’s mobile app and website has surged to a record.“When corona hit, it turbocharged already-accelerating growth,” Tyrie said in an interview. “We expected that we were going to get a whole bunch of new customers. We really didn’t expect the magnitude.”The pandemic has given a boost to digital banking, which involves less paperwork, greater use of electronic services and fewer in-person meetings. Online services have the potential to bring in new customers, help cut the number of costly branch locations and pare workforces, while making it harder for competitors to poach clients with the allure of better technology.For Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America, the digital push translated to more than 2 million customers using Erica for the first time since the beginning of March, bringing total active users to greater than 13 million. The virtual assistant handled 15 million requests from clients in April alone, accounting for about 10% of all queries received since its June 2018 introduction.Customers are now asking Erica most frequently about monthly charges, credit scores and scheduling bill reminders. In April, they were most concerned with payment deferrals, stimulus checks and small-business loans. Erica has been used by 250,000 customers asking for payment delays since mid-March, accounting for a large portion of the 1.6 million deferrals granted by the bank by the end of last month.Before the pandemic, most queries were basic ones involving such things as account numbers or transaction searches. The change in activity reflects a “dramatic shift” in use of the robot for more complex tasks involving customer finances, a trend the the bank expects to continue once the pandemic subsides, Tyrie said.
June 6, 2020;Travelodge’s Woes Pit U.K. Savers Against Wall Street Titans;The travails of a British chain of cheap hotels during the pandemic have pitted thousands of savers and retirees invested in the real-estate funds that own its branches against Wall Street titans.Travelodge Hotels Ltd., a familiar brand to traveling salesmen and thrifty tourists across the U.K., counts hedge funds Avenue Capital Group and Goldentree Asset Management as well as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. among its owners.This week, following a collapse in revenue during the Covid-19 lockdown, the company started proceedings to cut its rental bill up to December 2021 by 38% as part of a financial overhaul in which shareholders will provide 100 million pounds ($126 million) of new debt and equity.That’s bad news for Travelodge’s landlords, many of which are real-estate investment funds popular with pensioners, because they pay regular dividends backed by rental income.They have until June 19 to secure a better deal, when they and other creditors vote on whether to approve the proposals under a U.K. procedure known as a Company Voluntary Agreement.Officials at Avenue Capital, Goldentree and Goldman Sachs declined to comment on the CVA.“There are the bones of a structure here but it is still asking a huge commitment from landlords,” said Viv Watts, the leader of the Travelodge Owners Action Group which represents dozens of smaller landlords. “It could be workable if they are willing to engage with us which they haven’t been until now.”The landlords are short on bargaining power, however. If they refuse the rent cuts, under special measures enacted by the U.K. government to limit economic damage from the coronavirus, they can’t evict commercial tenants at least until the end of June. Even if they could, finding a new tenant in the midst of a recession would be a challenge.One landlord, Secure Income REIT, estimates the proposed CVA will result in a short-term reduction in rent of 23 million pounds, equivalent to a total of 10 months’ rent spread for two years across its 123-hotel Travelodge portfolio.The fund, backed by property tycoon Nick Leslau, was at the forefront of landlords’ rejection of an earlier proposal for rent cuts without financial contributions from Travelodge’s shareholders.Another owner of 12 Travelodge hotels, LXI REIT Plc, expects a 4.6% hit to its total rent in the financial year ending March 2021 under the proposals.Both property owners said they are considering the latest CVA proposal.Landlords may argue that Travelodge’s latest plan transfers too much of the pain from Covid-19 shutdowns onto them.Rival budget chain Premier Inn Hotels Ltd., owned by Whitbread Plc, raised money to see it through the crisis by issuing equity - placing the burden on its owners.“Whitbread paid their quarterly rent without fail and without question. They did an equity raise that will have hurt shareholders but it protected creditors who know they will pay their rent even in the middle of the worst crisis to hit the sector,” said Watts. “In this case the savers and pensioners are being asked to subsidize the shareholders.”Travelodge said its latest proposals take into account feedback from landlords and amount to the most effective way to secure the future of its more than 10,000 employees.While the U.K. lockdown that started in late March will probably deliver a 350 million-pound hit to sales this year, Travelodge’s CVA plan rules out hotel closures and the rent reductions are not permanent, it said in a statement. A representative for the firm declined to comment further.“The alternative for landlords could have been site closures.” said Julie Palmer, a partner at insolvency specialist firm Begbies Traynor. “A rent cut is not ideal but other options could be worse.”The rent cuts amount to 144 million pounds — equivalent to 2%-3% of the total due under the remaining lease, according to Travelodge. “Shareholder support,” meanwhile, meanwhile, adds up to 240 million pounds, the company said, including existing cash and use of a credit line that was already in place as well as the 60 million pounds of lending and as much as 40 million pounds additional capital pledged for the CVA.Travelodge will also provide landlords with a share of future earnings if they exceed a pre-determined threshold.But the plan imposes a bigger burden on some landlords than others, argues Watts of the Travelodge Owners Action Group. While 94% of hotel properties will receive at least half the rent due to them over the period affected by the plan, 6% of the portfolio, comprising hotels that are unprofitable or likely to lose money in future, will receive no rent, according to Travelodge.“They have created a new category of landlord that won’t be offered any income for nine months this year and the whole of next year,” said Watts. “It is substantially worse for some landlords than their first proposals.”
June 9, 2020;Macy’s Jumps After Reporting 450 Stores Have Reopened;Macy’s Inc. surged as much as 17% in early trading after announcing it has reopened 450 stores in some capacity and expects to exit the second quarter with a “clean inventory position.” This shows the U.S. department store chain may be bouncing back faster than expected from the Covid-19 outbreak that upended the retail world this year.As expected, the company posted a steep revenue decline, with net sales plunging 45% to $3 billion in the quarter ended May 2 amid U.S. lockdown measures that shuttered the company’s stores. Excluding some items, the company’s net loss was $630 million.Macy’s inventory outlook means it won’t exit the lockdown burdened with difficult-to-sell merchandise. Investors have been concerned about the rising level of goods sitting in the hundreds of retail stores that closed in mid-March in an effort to stem the spread of the coronavirus outbreak. For Macy’s, having less seasonal inventory would be beneficial to setting it up for the important holiday season.Chief Executive Officer Jeff Gennette said reopened stores are performing better than anticipated, while “strong digital business sales trend continued throughout May.” Gennette and the company’s interim chief financial officer, Felicia Williams, will speak during a retail event today at 11 a.m.Macy’s also used it inventories to help boost liquidity. The department store chain on Monday announced a credit line of $3.15 billion backed by its inventory, which brought its total new financing to $4.5 billion. The company said because of these new financings it expects “sufficient liquidity to address the needs of the business.”
June 8, 2020;Chesapeake Plans Bankruptcy With Exits Closing on Shale Pioneer;Chesapeake was already in a precarious position before the Covid-19 outbreak sent crude demand plummeting. At its height more than a decade ago, the producer was a $37.5 billion juggernaut commanded by McClendon, an outspoken advocate for the gas industry. But Chesapeake’s success at extracting the fuel from deeply buried rock contributed to a massive gas glut.
June 8, 2020;Wendy’s Signals America’s Beef Crisis Is Over, at Least For Now;Shuttered cattle-slaughter plants due to Covid-19 disrupted the restaurant’s supply chain. That resulted in some menu items being in short supply and prompted the company to focus on chicken products instead.But burgers are back after slaughterhouses boosted operations and workers returned to the job. That supply recovery has been reflected in the market: Wholesale beef prices have slumped from record levels, dropping 18 days in a row, according to U.S. Department of Agriculture data.Still, unions have warned that virus cases could keep spreading at meat plants where it’s hard to maintain social distancing -- that means analysts will keep watching for continued supply threats.
June 9, 2020;Outbreaks at 60 U.S. Food Plants Raise Specter of More Shortages;A caravan of vehicles decorated with black ribbons and memorial pictures crawled through Yakima, Washington, last week to mark the death of David Cruz, a 60-year-old fruit warehouse employee who died after contracting coronavirus. The county, a hub of agricultural activity where workers jam into often crowded factories to package apples and other foods, has the highest per capita infection rate on the West Coast.It’s a grim reality that’s playing out across the country as Covid-19 spreads beyond the meat plants that have captured the national spotlight. At least 60 food-processing facilities outside the meatpacking industry have seen outbreaks, with more than 1,000 workers diagnosed with the virus, according to a new study from Environmental Working Group.These are the first national numbers of their kind. The advocacy group compiled its figures using local media reports because there are no federal agencies reporting the data. The true total is almost certainly higher. Fruit and vegetable packers, bakers and dairy workers are risking infection as the virus spreads through processing plants where employees deemed essential have mostly remained on the job during the pandemic, sometimes laboring in close quarters.“At our workplace, we were not ready for this virus. We didn’t talk about it. We didn’t know about it,” said Paula Zambrano, a 61-year-old who works part time as a fruit sorter for Borton & Sons in Yakima. She was so concerned by an outbreak at the plant in April that the she didn’t come in for three weeks, but then she had to return to support herself.“People are infected and they come to work. They keep quiet about it,” she said. “We live from our work. We are surviving from our wages. If we have children, how will we feed them?”Borton & Sons didn’t respond to voicemail messages left for John Borton, an owner and director of business operation, and Eric Borton, director of business development.America’s food suppliers have seen some of the worst Covid-19 outbreaks of any industry outside health care. Dozens of meatpacking workers have died, with thousands falling sick. The virus has also spread among employees at farms, where in all likelihood cases will keep climbing as more than half a million seasonal migrants spread out across the nation as the summer harvesting season ramps up.In addition to the human tragedy, the outbreaks also expose the vulnerability of America’s food supply. The meat industry was already plunged into crisis with plant shutdowns that sparked grocery-store shortages. Even as that situation eases, more shortfalls of individual food items and ingredients are likely in the months ahead unless the virus’s spread is slowed at food-processing plants, said Kevin Kenny, chief operating officer of Decernis, an expert in global food safety and supply chains.There are about 1.7 million workers at food and beverage manufacturing facilities, of which roughly 500,000 are at meat processors, according to a 2018 U.S. Census Bureau survey.Unions, advocacy groups and experts have said that employers haven’t done enough to keep workers safe, with protective gear including face masks and gloves not being widely distributed until infections had already started to spread. Conditions inside plants can be crowded, and fast-moving processing lines may not allow enough space for social distancing. The largely immigrant labor-force also faces tough living conditions, with cramped housing -- sometimes in employer provided bunkhouse-style dormitories that can sleep four to 10 to a room.About 35% of food processing and dairy facilities have had at least one confirmed Covid-19 case, according to an International Brotherhood of Teamsters survey in May of union locals representing 79 plants. Roughly 80% of employers weren’t testing for the virus and more than a quarter of the workplaces didn’t allow employees to physically distance themselves 6 feet apart, the survey showed.The Teamsters union is planning a national “call to action” on Wednesday with demonstrations in almost 30 cities for better protection of food supply-chain workers.Still, the Teamsters have seen a “marked decline” in reports of outbreaks at union-represented food processing facilities in the past several weeks as employers have established more robust safety procedures, said Rome Aloise, director of the union’s dairy and food processing divisions. Union-represented employers are doing more no-touch temperature testing, strict adherence to safety protocols, including use of protective gear, and placing portable sanitation stations in workspaces, Aloise said.“Non-union counterparts aren’t doing the same things,” he said.Zambrano, the fruit worker in Washington, said her employer was initially slow to implement measures but now takes temperatures as employees enter work, provides masks and maintains social distancing.
June 9, 2020;Singapore to Boost Tech Spending to $2.5 Billion to Combat Virus;Singapore will spend S$3.5 billion ($2.5 billion) on information and communications technology in the current financial year as it prepares to develop and deploy new tools like sensors and contact-tracing devices to combat Covid-19.
June 5, 2020;New Evidence Social Distancing Is on the Wane;There’s growing evidence that life is returning to normal in the U.S. even though Covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, remains a threat. These charts show that the reopening of the country’s economy has occurred steadily since early April, when social distancing was at its maximum.The reopening, which shows no sign of slowing, makes it more important than ever for people to practice good hygiene. You didn’t need to wear a surgical mask when you were home alone with the dog and the TV, but if you’re now circulating in public, you need to take precautions against being infected with the virus—or giving it to someone else if you have it without knowing.The problem is, some people don’t see it that way. They’re abandoning safe practices at the very time they’re increasing their exposure to one another and, potentially, to the virus. It’s happening across the spectrum, from protesters against police violence to pool partiers. That sets the stage for a fresh outbreak.“I am concerned about this. The original epidemic was accelerated by the presence of large numbers of people in close proximity,” says Dr. Thomas Birch, medical director of the Institute for Clinical Research at Holy Name Medical Center in Teaneck, N.J. Birch, who’s a friend of mine, says some people are taking too many chances, while others are unnecessarily fearful and acting like hermits. He says everyone, regardless of political inclination, should continue simple, basic precautions such as wearing masks, washing hands thoroughly and frequently, maintaining physical distance, and avoiding potential “super-spreader” situations such as sports bars, where bellowing fans could spray viral particles over a wide range.“We need to find a middle ground that allows us to open,” Birch says . “If most people do the right thing, it will probably work. It doesn’t make the world perfect, but you tend to get a good result.”These reopening charts are based on data supplied by SafeGraph Inc., a company that collects location data from mobile phones. They show that nationally, the share of people staying home all day rose from 25% on March 1 to about 43% in early April, before gradually descending to just over 32% on June 1. The figures are calculated as a seven-day rolling average, so the latest numbers include the street protests related to the death of George Floyd under the knee of a Minneapolis police officer.New York and New Jersey, the states hardest hit by Covid-19, continue to have the highest proportion of people staying home, about 40%. At the low end are Alabama and Mississippi, with less than 25% staying home, according to the SafeGraph data. Going by metro area, New York City is at 46%; Los Angeles, 41%; Philadelphia, 41%; Chicago, about 39%; and Minneapolis, about 35%.The good thing about reopening is that people are earning money again. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the jobless rate fell in May to 13.3% from 14.7% in April, as 2.5 million jobs were created. The median estimate for the May unemployment rate had been 19.5%, according to a survey of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The bad thing, of course, is the risk of a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. It would be hard for authorities to shut the economy back down at this stage even if there were an upsurge, says Stephen Stanley, chief economist of Amherst Pierpont Securities LLC. Stanley argues that public health experts hurt their credibility by seeming to go along with crowding when it involved protests. “A second round of lockdowns was always going to be a long shot, but the odds of such an option have basically moved to zero, regardless of how the virus evolves,” he wrote in a note to clients on June 5.
June 9, 2020;Shopify Is Enjoying a Big Moment and Hoping It Will Last;In early April, as British consumers struggled to buy pantry staples amid the pandemic, Heinz decided to open its first-ever online store. Within days, the 151-year-old food brand had a website selling an assortment of beans, pasta hoops, and tomato soup for home delivery across the U.K. The virtual shop did so well that Heinz quickly expanded to offer its trademark condiments and baby food.Behind the speedy e-commerce pivot was Shopify Inc., a Canadian company that’s remained mostly invisible to consumers but has become the platform of choice for businesses seeking to get online quickly and cheaply. A monthly fee starting at $29 buys a virtual shop and all that’s needed to run it, including the e-tools required to manage such things as payments, inventory levels, and shipping.In the U.S., the world’s biggest e-commerce market after China, any purchase not made on Amazon.com Inc. is probably done via a website powered by Shopify. The Ottawa-based company claimed the second-largest share of online retail sales in the U.S. last year. Globally, it powers more than 1 million merchants across 175 countries, from Victoria Beckham’s clothing line to megabrands such as Heineken and PepsiCo. All told, Shopify helped flog $61 billion of goods in 2019.This year, the coronavirus has given Shopify—and online retail—a huge push. Whether the behavior shift is permanent remains to be seen, but it’s put a tech company few had heard of into the spotlight.Since January, Shopify’s share price has almost doubled. Its $88 billion market value exceeds that of Target, Uber Technologies, or General Electric. Since May, it’s been vying with the venerable Royal Bank of Canada as the country’s largest publicly listed company.Early on in the crisis, Tobi Lutke, Shopify’s convention-bucking chief executive officer and founder, told staff to “delete all our existing plans and re-derive them from this new reality.” For three days, employees dropped their usual jobs and focused on identifying what small businesses needed most to survive. In subsequent weeks, Shopify rushed out features to help merchants set up curbside pickup and local delivery. It announced new partnerships with Facebook Inc. and Pinterest Inc. to expand social media as a shopping tool. According to Chief Technology Officer Jean-Michel Lemieux, Shopify was seeing “Black Friday-level traffic every day” in April. As brick-and-mortar stalwarts such as J.C. Penney Co. and Neiman Marcus Group Inc. tipped into bankruptcy, Shopify saw a 62% surge in store creations over a six-week period.“The future of retail is everywhere,” says Shopify Chief Operating Officer Harley Finkelstein. It’s the kind of anywhere-and-everywhere retail that Shopify has aimed for since it was founded in 2006. Traditionally, merchants cobbled together applications to manage different channels. Shopify reduces that to a single platform. “The idea is no matter where or how you sell, it all feeds into one centralized back office where you can see and run the entirety of your business,” says Finkelstein.Consumer spending may yet collapse as economies struggle to recover from a surge in unemployment. Shopify’s skeptics question how much of the pandemic-induced rush online would have happened anyway, or whether the company is merely borrowing against future growth. Perhaps more important, how many of the small merchants using Shopify will survive? (After the global financial crisis, thousands never recovered.) “It’s just not clear that Shopify will be larger or more profitable than it would have been absent Covid-19,” says Chris Silvestre, an analyst at Veritas Investment Research.Still, whatever size the online retail pie ends up being, Shopify just grabbed a much larger share. The company’s biggest risk may be meeting investors’ lofty expectations. “It’s an incredible amount of pressure,” says Silvestre. “And it’s largely out of their control.” 
June 8, 2020;Zara Owner Built a Post-Covid Retailer Before Virus Came Along;A few weeks after Spain declared a nationwide lockdown in mid-March to fight the growing coronavirus outbreak, clothing retailer Inditex SA began running low on goods.The world’s largest fashion retailer typically operates a lean warehouse operation, preferring instead to hold the majority of its stock in stores that double as e-commerce fulfillment centers. That way, turnaround is faster, shelves are replenished more regularly and inventory is kept to a minimum.But with about 3,500 stores worldwide closed, this carefully balanced just-in-time cycle of goods was reaching breaking point. By April, Inditex sent out an unusual request to employees, seeking volunteers to retrieve clothes and accessories left in stock rooms and on shelves in the hundreds of Zara, Massimo Dutti and other brand stores to fulfill e-commerce orders.The unorthodox blend of local manufacturing, nimble logistics and aggressive embrace of e-commerce has helped Inditex weather the fallout from the global lockdown better than many other retailers. It’s also helped recalibrate operations for a future of shopping where face masks, limited store access and distancing stand to push consumers online in ever greater numbers.While the company is set to report its first-ever loss when it unveils quarterly earnings on Wednesday, Inditex managed to rely on its online business to keep operations running, limiting the damage from the shutdown that’s now beginning to ease in Spain and elsewhere.The shares rose 0.4% early Tuesday in Madrid. So far this year they’re down about 16%.“Pre-Covid 19, online generated about 14% to 15% of Inditex’s sales, and no doubt that will have accelerated now,” said Richard Chamberlain, managing director of European general retail at RBC Capital Markets. “The advantage they have is a central pool of inventory, which is shipping out stock to shops a couple of times a week so the idea of shipping directly to people all over the world is pretty easy.”A relative latecomer to the Internet, Inditex launched its first online apparel business in 2010 and expanded the digital business with a big bet on technology that ties into its unique logistics and distribution system.The system has two key pillars: heavy rotation of products that move quickly from commissioning to sale in stores; and proximity of production, with the bulk of garments made in Spain, Portugal, Morocco and Turkey. Almost all clothes are sent to a handful of centers in Spain and re-distributed from there to outlets worldwide.The approach differs from Nordic rival Hennes & Mauritz AB, which has long struggled to reduce its $4 billion inventory buildup. At the end of February, H&M’s stock-in-trade was the equivalent of 16% of rolling 12-month sales. Inditex and H&M’s financial years differ by one month, complicating a direct comparison. Still, analysts expect H&M to report a loss for this fiscal quarter that’s more than four times as big as that of Inditex.When Inditex launched its apparel online business in 2010, it made up for the late entry by harnessing technology that gave it a more robust overview of its product stream. Two years earlier, Inditex had introduced so-called RFID tracking, using radio-frequency identification inside the alarm tag that transmits data from the garment to a reader. The tag goes live as soon as a product enters a stock center, and is then deactivated when the item is sold, providing Inditex with exact, real-time control over its inventory.“It was important that from the day of the launch that online is relevant for the company and totally integrated with the rest of the business,” Inditex Executive Chairman Pablo Isla said in an interview in February. “We adapted so well to the online world because it was all natural. Without RFID, it wouldn’t have been possible, and RFID wouldn’t have been possible without thinking about alarms.”Knowing its inventory to the dot matters to Inditex. Its logistics operation requires the bulk of its products be shipped from the manufacturing centers to distribution centers in Spain. Then, based on requests from store managers spread across the world, the company sends clothes twice a week to each shop. This cuts down the amount of stockpile, which can turn into a huge burden for retailers if goods aren’t sold , be it for unforeseen weather, a flopped collection -- or a global virus.When the store stock sat idle in the lockdown, Inditex relied on volunteer workers to go pick up the garments, helped by the fact that it hadn’t furloughed employees in Spain. Getting its hands on the additional clothing was key because already in March, Inditex had ramped up web discounts, a rare move for a company that emphasizes how online and offline operations are always in sync.During the pandemic, online had an opportunity to shine because in most major countries where Inditex operates in Europe, e-commerce was allowed to continue operating even as brick-and-mortar temporarily closed down. This occurred in Spain, Inditex’s largest market, where the government declared a national lockdown March 14, causing retail sales to drop by a record 14% that month.Still, the company remains in good shape, thanks to its strong balance sheet boasting 8 billion euros ($9.04 billion) of cash and cash equivalents, the integrated online business and low inventory compared with rivals, according to Chamberlain.“Inditex has a relatively fortress balance sheet,” he said. “Having a very strong balance sheet gives them a lot of capacity to weather the storm and to keep investing for the long term and look after their people and suppliers very well.”
June 8, 2020;As Many as 25,000 U.S. Stores May Close in 2020, Mostly in Malls;As many as 25,000 U.S. stores could close permanently this year after the coronavirus pandemic devastated an industry where many mall-based retailers were already struggling.The number would shatter the record set in 2019, when more than 9,800 stores closed their doors for good, according to a report from retail and tech data firm Coresight Research. Most of the closures are expected to occur in malls, with department stores and clothing shops predicted to be among the hardest hit.“If the anchor tenants close stores in the mall, other tenants are likely to follow suit,” Coresight Chief Executive Officer Deborah Weinswig said in the report, which put the expected range at 20,000 to 25,000. “Department and large apparel-chain store closures in malls will therefore create a ripple effect that spells bad news for malls.”The U.S. has the most retail selling space per capita of any country and the lowest sales per square feet, according to commercial real estate company Cushman & Wakefield. Most retailers have been reluctant to shrink their store networks, but the pandemic has forced many to rewrite their playbooks.American retailers went dark in mid-March in response to the Covid-19 outbreak, and -- even though states are now beginning to ease restrictions -- many shops are still shuttered or only providing limited service. As of June 5, retailers have planned about 4,000 permanent store closures, including hundreds by J.C. Penney, Victoria’s Secret and Pier 1 Imports. In March, before the extent and duration of the virus lockdown was clear, Coresight estimated that about 15,000 stores would shutter in 2020.Alongside the closures, the firm expects to see another spate of bankruptcies as debt-laden retailers are pushed over the edge. Fifteen major retailers have already filed this year.
June 8, 2020;Lockdowns May Have Helped Prevent Half a Billion Coronavirus Cases;Lockdowns and other public-health measures may have prevented about half a billion coronavirus infections in six countries, including China and the U.S.The virus has now caused some 7 million reported cases of Covid-19, with more than 400,000 fatalities. Published Monday in the journal Nature, the first peer-reviewed analysis of the impact of health policies suggests that the toll would have been vastly worse without lockdowns, social distancing, travel restrictions and other interventions. Many coronavirus infections are relatively mild, and most of the roughly 500 million averted cases would have gone undetected, according to the study.“Seemingly small delays in policy deployment likely produced dramatically different health outcomes” in different countries, said Solomon Hsiang, lead author on the paper from the University of California, Berkeley. The authors distinguished between prevention of cases that would have been reported and those that would never have been diagnosed.Home isolation, business closures and lockdowns produced the clearest benefits, the study found. Travel restrictions and bans on gatherings had good results in Italy and Iran, but their impact was less clear in the U.S.There was no strong evidence that school closures had an effect in any country, and the team said that more research should be done to inform decisions on opening or closing schools.Most interventions took three weeks to achieve their full impact. Now that some countries are relaxing policies, “we might reasonably expect signals of any renewed spread to emerge on a similar two- to three-week time frame,” Hsiang said.A separate report in Nature said lockdowns, school closures and other non-pharmaceutical measures may have saved 3.1 million lives in Europe alone. The study from Imperial College London estimated reductions in transmission up until May 4 based on combined data from 11 European countries, including the U.K., Spain, Italy, Germany and Belgium.“This data suggests that without any interventions, such as lockdown and school closures, there could have been many more deaths from Covid-19,” said Samir Bhatt, one of the study’s authors, in a statement. “Careful consideration should now be given to the continued measures that are needed to keep Sars-CoV-2 transmission under control.”
June 8, 2020;Smartsheet Sinks After Covid-19 Drives Sales Disappointment;Smartsheet Inc.’s first-quarter results were hamstrung by the Covid-19 pandemic as demand and sales cycles were hurt across a range of its segments and management cut its expectations for the year.Jefferies analyst Brent Thill said expectations were elevated going into the earnings and that Smartsheet “unfortunately fell victim to a weaker business environment due to Covid-19.” Thill said bears will also point to a material accounting weakness and reduced close rates. Smartsheet’s stock fell the most on record, sinking 23% at 10:08 a.m. Thursday, after shares closed at a record high on Monday.Some on the Street, such as Needham analyst Scott Berg, opted to look beyond the first-quarter weakness. “We are aggressive buyers on what we expect will be significant stock weakness as our industry work suggests this decelerating bookings momentum is temporary and will reaccelerate in” the second half of fiscal 2021, he wrote in a note to clients.“We questioned Smartsheet’s sanguine guidance last quarter when most companies would have been given a hall pass due to the pandemic. Unfortunately for Smartsheet it provided forecasts before the true impact of the pandemic was known and couldn’t meet the elevated expectations that come along with high multiples.”“That said, the company noted improvements in May (engagements increasing with larger customers) and we don’t believe anything is wrong with the go-to-market motion or the product as low cost, high ROI solutions tend to thrive in the long run.”Management commentary that it expects to grow its sales headcount more than it did last year despite macro concerns is evidence that “the pipeline and opportunity remain strong.”“Covid had a much larger impact on the company’s first-quarter sales than our industry work suggested and guidance suggests these headwinds will remain in second-quarter.”“Net Revenue Retention remains best in class at +132% year-over-year and large customer growth remained positive against the disappointing overall results backdrop.”Maintains buy rating, price target to $67 from $60 as the firm rolls its valuation multiple forward to fiscal year 2021 estimate.Smartsheet saw signs of demand stabilization in May as well as strong pipeline development across all customer segments though “headwinds still exist.”Company is still not back to pre-Covid-19 selling levels though “this is not a problem of demand or changing competitive dynamics” and customer engagement remains high.“Some investors may be disappointed that the work from home benefit is not coming through, and while near-term uncertainty still exists, we think Smartsheet is ultimately well-positioned to benefit in the collaboration/workflow automation market once the macro backdrop is on more stable ground.”“We believe the company’s favorable competition position and large TAM associated with work execution software could drive upside to consensus estimates but realize the potential for Covid-19 to further impact billings/new business.”“We believe recent product developments in areas like accelerators and capabilities-based solutions, content and resource management in marketing use cases, solid sales execution, and the ability to expand significantly within the existing customer base through addressing additional use cases should aid in maintaining much higher growth (30% plus) compared to our broader coverage over the long term.”Management said that its short sales cycles “translate into a rapid impact on results from a change in the demand environment.”“The company is prudently assuming a headwind from Covid-19 for the remainder of the year.”
June 7, 2020;LVMH-Backed Private Equity Firm Hires Ex-TPG Veteran in Asia;L Catterton, the $20 billion consumer-focused private equity firm co-founded by luxury retailer LVMH, has hired former TPG Capital Asia partner Scott Chen to help lead its operations in the region and strike new deals as consumption recovers from Covid-19.Chen is a 19-year veteran of TPG who co-led its Greater China investment opportunities from Beijing. L Catterton Asia, which has about $3 billion in assets under management, has invested in restaurants, bars and retailers from China to Australia.L Catterton co-Chief Executive Officer Michael Chu said the hiring of Chen and other internal promotions demonstrate the firm’s view that there’s still growth to be found in the space. Its portfolio companies in some categories are reporting dramatic rebounds in sales and foot traffic as markets re-open from the virus, and the firm plans to raise more money to do deals worldwide.“Many of our businesses in Asia are returning back to activity levels of pre-shutdown and we’re seeing really, really encouraging green-shoots in Europe,” Chu said in an interview. “Even in the U.S., which is very early in its re-opening, some of our businesses are seeing really surprisingly strong numbers.”Chen’s appointment comes amid extensive management changes at L Catterton Asia. He will run the team with fellow managing partner Chinta Bhagat, who joined in August, with more portfolio managers set to be hired by the end of this year.However, several executives, partners and a strategic advisory board have departed over the past year. Chu said long-time managing partner Ravi Thakran will become chairman emeritus, with a focus on several legacy investments, though the firm is also looking to potentially work with him on other funds.Chu’s relative bullishness comes despite negative industry forecasts. Offline, non-grocery retail is expected to drop 20% this year, according to Forrester Research, with JC Penney Co., Neiman Marcus Group Inc., J. Crew Group Inc. and Pier 1 Imports Inc. are among those to file for bankruptcy. The global personal luxury goods market could contract as much as 35% in 2020, Bain & Co. estimated.Data from L Catterton’s portfolio companies in Asia, which is the first region to start re-opening economies after enduring a wave of lock downs, have shown that some retail sectors are capable of rapid rebounds once restrictions are lifted.While categories like food, beverage and fashion remain slow, Owndays - a Japanese glasses chain - saw its same-store sales rise 22% last month in Thailand from a year earlier, and 17% in Japan, compared with a 57% drop in locked-down Singapore.Customers are also keen to hit the gym once lockdowns end. In China, its service businesses in the health and wellness space saw cash income go from 9% of the prior year’s levels in mid-March to 70% in mid-April.Chen’s home base has yet to be decided and his responsibility will cover the entire region. But given his experience working in China, Bhagat said it’s expected that he’ll have a natural focus there.Bhagat said his immediate priorities are to monitor the existing portfolio and help companies get the help they need to weather the recession while completing deals that were started before the pandemic began. Last month it bought a stake in Japanese cosmetics maker Etvos Co.While L Catterton Asia is encouraging some of its portfolio companies to consolidate to cope with the downturn, it’s still interested in striking new deals in areas like beauty and personal care, health and wellness and tech. Online health services is an especially key area of interest, albeit one where valuations have leapt.“That’s probably been the one area where there’s been a kind of tectonic shift overnight. Every metric has gone through the roof both in Asia and every part of the world,” he said. “But overall I think we’ll be quite cautious.”
June 4, 2020;Overlooked Covid-19 Vaccine Runners Up Defended by Wall Street;Don’t give up hope for Novavax Inc. and Inovio Pharmaceuticals Inc., Wall Street analysts said after the two failed to appear on a Trump administration list of Covid-19 vaccine developers picked for Operation Warp Speed.The pair slid more than 10% on Wednesday following a New York Times report saying that the White House’s list included larger drugmakers such as AstraZeneca PLC, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co. and Pfizer Inc., but not the pair of small-caps.Bloomberg reporting shows that two other, as yet unnamed, companies have also been selected for the U.S. government’s effort. An official announcement is expected within weeks.One analyst thought Inovio must be one of the missing finalists from the White House’s effort. “INO-4800 is more-than-likely on the short list of remaining vaccine candidates,” Stifel’s Stephen Willey wrote, pointing to safety and immunogenicity results expected by the end of the month as well as Inovio’s “competitive advantages.” The Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania-based company’s experimental vaccine, INO-4800, uses part of the virus’s DNA to trigger an immune response.“WARP Speed finalists may not be final” and the initial list may be short-sighted, Cantor Fitzgerald analyst Charles Duncan said. “Show me the data,” he said, noting the vaccine developers mentioned were “high-profile, large pharma candidates, all of which lack significant clinical experience.”Duncan expects that different approaches to developing an immunization against Covid-19 will be needed and saw both Inovio and Novavax’s candidates as good options, though neither has yet to commercialize a product. He gives Inovio and Novavax buy-equivalent ratings.The two U.S.-based biotechs are each working on one of the 10 vaccines for Covid-19 currently being tested in humans, according to the World Health Organization. More than 120 others are being tested in animals. Also in the clinical stages of vaccine development, but not mentioned in the Bloomberg or N.Y.Times reports, are Chinese vaccine developers Sinovac Biotech Ltd., CanSino Biologics Inc. and SinoPharm Group Co., all three of whom are conducting human trials of vaccines.Moderna Inc., another unproven vaccine developer that’s working on an RNA-based immunization, was selected. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based biotech has been working with the National Institutes of Health since the start of the pandemic and is already backed by more than $400 million in federal funding. One problem with Moderna’s and other rival’s methods will be cold storage and finding enough facilities to house their vaccines. That’s not a problem for Novavax’s protein based approach or Inovio’s DNA-based platform, Cantor’s Duncan said.Novavax is not without backers. The biotech secured $388 million in May, the single largest grant from the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI) at the time. Inovio has received $17 million from the Oslo-based group.Another blow to confidence in untested vaccine developers came on Thursday after AstraZeneca secured $750 million from CEPI and Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, a non-profit organization.Prominent makers of vaccines such as Sanofi and GlaxoSmithKline Plc, were also notably absent from the White House list. Operation Warp Speed is headed up by Moncef Slaoui, a former Glaxo executive.Inovio fell as much as 4.3% Thursday. Novavax rose as much as 5.5% before paring most of those gains.
June 8, 2020;A Crash in the Dollar Is Coming;The era of the U.S. dollar’s “exorbitant privilege” as the world’s primary reserve currency is coming to an end. Then French Finance Minister Valery Giscard d’Estaing coined that phrase in the 1960s largely out of frustration, bemoaning a U.S. that drew freely on the rest of the world to support its over-extended standard of living. For almost 60 years, the world complained but did nothing about it. Those days are over.Already stressed by the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, U.S. living standards are about to be squeezed as never before. At the same time, the world is having serious doubts about the once widely accepted presumption of American exceptionalism. Currencies set the equilibrium between these two forces — domestic economic fundamentals and foreign perceptions of a nation’s strength or weakness. The balance is shifting, and a crash in the dollar could well be in the offing.The seeds of this problem were sown by a profound shortfall in domestic U.S. savings that was glaringly apparent before the pandemic. In the first quarter of 2020, net national saving, which includes depreciation-adjusted saving of households, businesses and the government sector, fell to 1.4% of national income. This was the lowest reading since late 2011 and one-fifth the average of 7% from 1960 to 2005.Lacking in domestic saving, and wanting to invest and grow, the U.S. has taken great advantage of the dollar’s role as the world’s primary reserve currency and drawn heavily on surplus savings from abroad to square the circle. But not without a price. In order to attract foreign capital, the U.S. has run a deficit in its current account — which is the broadest measure of trade because it includes investment — every year since 1982.Covid-19, and the economic crisis it has triggered, is stretching this tension between saving and the current-account to the breaking point. The culprit: exploding government budget deficits. According to the bi-partisan Congressional Budget Office, the federal budget deficit is likely to soar to a peacetime record of 17.9% of gross domestic product in 2020 before hopefully receding to 9.8% in 2021.A significant portion of the fiscal support has initially been saved by fear-driven, unemployed U.S. workers. That tends to ameliorate some of the immediate pressures on overall national saving. However, monthly Treasury Department data show that the crisis-related expansion of the federal deficit has far outstripped the fear-driven surge in personal saving, with the April deficit 5.7 times the shortfall in the first quarter, or fully 50% larger than the April increment of personal saving.   In other words, intense downward pressure is now building on already sharply depressed domestic saving. Compared with the situation during the global financial crisis, when domestic saving was a net negative for the first time on record, averaging -1.8% of national income from the third quarter of 2008 to the second quarter of 2010, a much sharper drop into negative territory is now likely, possibly plunging into the unheard of -5% to -10% zone.And that is where the dollar will come into play. For the moment, the greenback is strong, benefiting from typical safe-haven demand long evident during periods of crisis. Against a broad cross-section of U.S. trading partners, the dollar was up almost 7% over the January to April period in inflation-adjusted, trade-weighted terms to a level that stands fully 33% above its July 2011 low, Bank for International Settlements data show. (Preliminary data hint at a fractional slippage in early June.)But the coming collapse in saving points to a sharp widening of the current-account deficit, likely taking it well beyond the prior record of -6.3% of GDP that it reached in late 2005. Reserve currency or not, the dollar will not be spared under these circumstances. The key question is what will spark the decline?Look no further than the Trump administration. Protectionist trade policies, withdrawal from the architectural pillars of globalization such as the Paris Agreement on Climate, Trans-Pacific Partnership, World Health Organization and traditional Atlantic alliances, gross mismanagement of Covid-19 response, together with wrenching social turmoil not seen since the late 1960s, are all painfully visible manifestations of America’s sharply diminished global leadership. As the economic crisis starts to stabilize, hopefully later this year or in early 2021, that realization should hit home just as domestic saving plunges. The dollar could easily test its July 2011 lows, weakening by as much as 35% in broad trade-weighted, inflation-adjusted terms.The coming collapse in the dollar will have three key implications:  It will be inflationary — a welcome short-term buffer against deflation but, in conjunction with what is likely to be a weak post-Covid economic recovery, yet another reason to worry about an onset of stagflation — the tough combination of weak economic growth and rising inflation that wreaks havoc on financial markets.Moreover, to the extent a weaker dollar is symptomatic of an exploding current-account deficit, look for a sharp widening of America’s trade deficit.   Protectionist pressures on the largest piece of the country’s multilateral shortfall with 102 nations – namely the Chinese bilateral imbalance — will backfire and divert trade to other, higher-cost, producers,  effectively taxing beleaguered U.S. consumers.Finally, in the face of Washington’s poorly timed wish for financial decoupling from China, who will fund the saving deficit of a nation that has finally lost its exorbitant privilege? And what terms — namely interest rates — will that funding now require?Like Covid-19 and racial turmoil, the fall of the almighty dollar will cast global economic leadership of a saving-short U.S. economy in a very harsh light. Exorbitant privilege needs to be earned, not taken for granted.














